Letter #1

[MS 2750/542/6 Letter from the Leonard Woolf to E. McKnight Kauffer]

E.McKnight Kauffer, Esq.,
14 Swan Court, S.W.3                                March 18th, 1935.

Dear Kauffer,
        You said you would be good enough to design a jacket
for my book. It is called Quack, Quack![both words were underlined], and is about quackery
in politics, and largely about fascism. I enclose rough pulls 
of four of the illustrations which I am using in the book. They
are supposed to show the resemblance between fascist leaders ad-
dressing their following, and the masks of savages representing
war gods. I thought perhaps it might be a good thing to have
these four photographs - or rather the heads - reduced to small
medallions on the jacket. Do you think that some design in-
corporating these would be a possibility?
        It is an ordinary crown 8vo book, but we will send you
a dummy showing the exact size of the spine, and we can also send
you better pulls of the photographs if necessary.
                    Yours,



Letter#2                    
                    
[MS 2750/C/21/4/14 Letter from Donald Brace to Leonard Woolf]

COPY[underlined, blue color, the entire letter]

                                                    Hartcourt, Brace and Company, Inc.
                                                        Publishers,
                                                            383 Madison Avenue,
                                                                New York.
                                                                
                                                        August 2, 1928.
Leonard Woolf, Esq.,
The Hogarth Press
52 Tavistock Square
London, W.C.l.

Dear Mr. Woolf:

        On my return from a brief holiday, I find your
several letters covering details in regard to ORLANDO.

        The three photographs have been received. Please 
don't trouble about the photograph of the illustration you are
using on the wrapper. I think we shall not use this for our
edition. I don't want the book to get classified as
biography in the bookstores, and I am afraid this would be 
inevitable if we make the wrapper like yours.

        Many thanks for sending so promptly the six sets 
of page proofs.

        The date of publication we consider settled for 
October 11th.

        I also have from Mrs. Woolf the revised proofs covering
page 269 and the Index.

        Perhaps you will be wondering whether The Literary
Guild has reached any decision. You will remember that I 
cabled you suggesting your showing the book to Mr. Van Doren
while he was in London. Although he has not yet returned, I
understand that he saw you and read the book. We have been
able to let Mrs. Van Doren read it here. We shall not get
a final decision from the Guild until the selecting committee
is together, which I understand will not be until the latter
part of this month. I expect you know in a general way
about The Literary Guild, but I will give you full details
whenever there is anything definite to report.

                                Very sincerely,
                                
                                        Donald C. Brace.
BCD:CMc
        
                                                                
                                                             


                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
         