<T Bliss><Y 1920><P 111>
  Although Bertha Young was thirty she still had
moments like this when she wanted to run instead of
walk, to take dancing steps on and off the pavement, to bowl a
hoop, to throw something up in the air and catch it again, or
to stand still and laugh at - nothing - at nothing, simply.
  What can you do if you are thirty and, turning the corner
of your own street, you are overcome, suddenly, by a feeling
of bliss - absolute bliss! - as though you'd suddenly swallowed
a bright piece of that late afternoon sun and it burned in your


bosom, sending out a little shower of sparks into every particle,
into every finger and toe?...
  Oh, is there no way you can express it without being "drunk
and disorderly"? How idiotic civilisation is. Why be given
a body if you have to keep it shut up in a case like a rare, rare
fiddle?
  "No, that about the fiddle is not quite what I mean," she
thought, running up the steps and feeling in her bag for the
key - she'd forgotten it, as usual - and rattling the letter-box.
"It's not what I mean, because - Thank you, Mary" - she
went into the hall. "Is nurse back?"
  "Yes,M'm."
  "And has the fruit come?"
  "Yes, M'm. Everything's come."
  "Bring the fruit up to the dining-room, will you? I'll
arrange it before I go upstairs."
  It was dusky in the dining-room and quite chilly. But all
the same Bertha threw off her coat; she could not bear the
tight clasp of it another moment, and the cold air fell on her
arms.
<P 112>
  But in her bosom there was still that bright glowing place -
that shower of little sparks coming from it. It was almost
unbearable. She hardly dared breathe for fear of fanning it
higher, and yet she breathed deeply, deeply. She hardly dared
to look into the cold mirror - but she did look, and it gave her
back a woman, radiant, with smiling, trembling lips, with big,
dark eyes and an air of listening, waiting for something...
divine to happen...that she knew must happen...infallibly.
  Mary brought in the fruit on a tray and with it a glass bowl,
and a blue dish, very lovely, with a strange sheen on it as
though it had been dipped in milk.
  "Shall I turn on the light, M'm?"
  "No, thank you. I can see quite well."
  There were tangerines and apples stained with strawberry
pink. Some yellow pears, smooth as silk, some white grapes


covered with a silver bloom and a big cluster of purple ones.
These last she had bought to tone in with the new dining-room
carpet. Yes, that did sound rather far-fetched and absurd, but
it was really why she had bought them. She had thought in
the shop: "I must have some purple ones to bring the carpet
up to the table." And it seemed quite sense at the time.
  When she had finished with them and had made two pyramids
of these bright round shapes, she stood away from the table
to get the effect - and it really was most curious. For the dark
table seemed to melt into the dusky light and the glass dish and
the blue bowl to float in the air. This, of course, in her present
mood, was so incredibly beautiful...She began to laugh.
  "No, no. I'm getting hysterical." And she seized her bag
and coat and ran upstairs to the nursery.
  Nurse sat at a low table giving Little B her supper after her
bath. The baby had on a white flannel gown and a blue woollen
jacket, and her dark, fine hair was brushed up into a funny little
peak. She looked up when she saw her mother and began to
jump.
  "Now, my lovey, eat it up like a good girl," said nurse,
setting her lips in a way that Bertha knew, and that meant she
had come into the nursery at another wrong moment.
<P 113>
  "Has she been good, Nanny?"
  "She's been a little sweet all the afternoon," whispered
Nanny. "We went to the park and I sat down on a chair and
took her out of the pram and a big dog came along and put its
head on my knee and she cluched its ear, tugged it. Oh, you
should have seen her."
  Bertha wanted to ask if it wasn't rather dangerous to let her
clutch at a strange dog's ear. But she did not dare to. She
stood watching them, her hands by her side, like a poor little
girl in front of the rich little girl with the doll.
  The baby looked up at her again, stared, and then smiled so
charmingly that Bertha couldn't help crying:


  "Oh, Nanny, do let me finish giving her her supper while
you put the bath things away."
  "Well, M'm, she oughtn't to be changed hands while she's
eating," said Nanny, still whispering. "It unsettles her; it's
very likely to upset her."
  How absurd it was. Why have a baby if it has to be kept -
not in a case like a rare, rare fiddle - but in another woman's
arms?  "Oh, I must!" said she.
  Very offended, Nanny handed her over.
  "Now, don't excite her after her supper. You know you do,
M'm. And I have such a time with her after!"
  Thank heaven! Nanny went out of the room with the bath
towels.
  "Now I've got you to myself, my little precious," said
Bertha, as the baby leaned against her.
  She ate delightfully, holding up her lips for the spoon and
then waving her hands. Sometimes she wouldn't let the spoon
go; and sometimes, just as Bertha had filled it, she waved it
away to the four winds.
  When the soup was finished Bertha turned round to the fire.
  "You're nice - you're very nice." said she, kissing her warm
baby. "I'm fond of you. I like you."
  And, indeed, she loved Little B so much - her neck as she
bent forward, her exquisite toes as they shone transparent in the
firelight - that all her feeling of bliss came back again, and again
she didn't know how to express it - what to do with it.
<P 114>
  "You're wanted on the telephone," said Nanny, coming
back in triumph and seizing h_e_r_ Little B.
  Down she flew. It was Harry.
  "Oh, is that you, Ber? Look here. I'll be late. I'll take a
taxi and come along as quickly as I can, but get dinner put back
ten minutes - will you? All right?"
  "Yes, perfectly. Oh, Harry!"


  "Yes?"
  What had she to say? She'd nothing to say. She only
wanted to get in touch with him for a moment. She couldn't
absurdly cry: "Hasn't it been a divine day!"
  "What is it?" rapped out the little voice.
  "Nothing. E_n_t_e_n_d_u_," said Bertha, and hung up the receiver,
thinking how much more than idiotic civilisation was.
  They had people coming to dinner. The Norman Knights
 - a very sound couple - he was about to start a theatre, and
she was awfully keen on interior decoration, a young man,
Eddie Waren, who had just published a little book of poems
and whom everybody was asking to dine, and a "find" of
Bertha's called Pearl Fulton. What Miss Fulton did, Bertha
didn't know. They had met at the club and Bertha had fallen
in love with her, as she always did fall in love with beautiful
women who had something strange about them.
  The provoking thing was that, though they had been about
together and met a number of times and really talked, Bertha
couldn't make her out. Up to a certain point Miss Fulton was
rarely, wonderfully frank, but the certain point was there, and
beyond she would not go.
  Was there anything beyond it? Harry said "No." Voted
her dullish, and "cold like all blonde women, with a touch, perhaps,
of anaemia of the brain." But Bertha wouldn't agree with
him; not yet, at any rate.
  "No, the way she has of sitting with her head a little on one
side, and smiling, has something behind it, Harry, and I must
find out what that something is."
  "Most likely it's a good stomach," answered Harry.
<P 115>
  He made a point of catching Bertha's heels with replies of that
kind..."liver frozen, my dear girl," or "pure flatulence," or
"kidney disease,"...and so on. For some strange reason
Bertha liked this, and almost admired it in him very much.
  She went into the drawing-room and lighted the fire; then,


picking up the cushions, one by one, that Mary had disposed so
carefully, she threw them back on to the chairs and the couches.
That made all the difference; the room came alive at once. As
she was about to throw the last one she surprised herself by
suddenly hugging it to her, passionately, passionately. But it
did not put out the fire in her bosom. Oh, on the contrary!
  The windows of the drawing-room opened on to a balcony
overlooking the garden. At the far end, against the wall, there
was a tall, slender pear tree in fullest, richest bloom; it stood
perfect, as though becalmed against the jade-green sky. Bertha
couldn't help feeling, even from this distance, that it had not a
single bud or a faded petal. Down below, in the garden beds,
the red and yellow tulips, heavy with flowers, seemed to lean
upon the dusk. A grey cat, dragging its belly, crept across the
lawn, and a black one, its shadow, trailed after. The sight of
them, so intent and so quick, gave Bertha a curious shiver.
  "What creepy things cats are!" she stammered, and she turned
away from the window and began walking up and down....
  How strong the jonquils smelled in the warm room. Too
strong? Oh, no. And yet, as though overcome, she flung
down on a couch and pressed her hands to her eyes.
  "I'm too happy - too happy!" she murmured.
  And she seemed to see on her eyelids the lovely pear tree with
its wide open blossoms as a symbol of her own life.
  Really - really - she had everything. She was young. Harry
and she were as much in love as ever, and they got on together
splendidly and were really good pals. She had an adorable
baby. They didn't have to worry about money. They had
this absolutely satisfactory house and garden. And friends -
modern, thrilling friends, writers and painters and poets or
people keen on social questions - just the kind of friends they
wanted. And then there were books, and there was music, and
she had found a wonderful little dressmaker, and they were
<P 116>
going abroad in the summer, and their new cook made the most
superb omelettes...


    "I'm absurd. Absurd!" She sat up; but she felt quite
dizzy, quite drunk. It must have been the spring.
  Yes, it was the spring. Now she was so tired she could not
drag herself upstairs to dress.
  A white dress, a string of jade beads, green shoes and stockings.
It wasn't intentional. She had thought of this scheme
hours before she stood at the drawing-room window.
  Her petals rustled softly into the hall, and she kissed Mrs.
Norman Knight, who was taking off the most amusing orange
coat with a procession of black monkeys round the hem and
up the fronts.
  "...Why! Why! Why is the middle-class so stodgy -
so utterly without a sense of humour! My dear,it's only by a
fluke that I am here at all - Norman being the protective fluke.
For my darling monkeys so upset the train that it rose to a man
and simply ate me with its eyes. Didn't laugh - wasn't amused
 - that I should have loved. No, just stared - and bored me
through and through."
  "But the cream of it was," said Norman, pressing a large
tortoiseshell- rimmed monocle into his eye, "you don't mind me
telling this, Face, do you?" (In their home and among their
friends they called each other Face and Mug.) "The cream of
it was when she, being full fed, turned to the woman beside her
and said: 'Haven't you ever seen a monkey before?"
  "Oh, yes!" Mrs. Norman Knight joined in the laughter.
"Wasn't that too absolutely creamy?"
  And a funnier thing still was that now her coat was off she
did look like a very intelligent monkey - who had even made
that yellow silk dress out of scraped banana skins. And her
amber ear-rings: they were like little dangling nuts.
  "This is a sad, sad fall!" said Mug, pausing in front of
Little B's perambulator. "When the perambulator comes
into the hall - " and he waved the rest of the quotation
away.



  The bell rang. It was lean, pale Eddie Warren (as usual) in
a state of acute distress.
  "It i_s_ the right house, i_s_n_'_t_ it?" he pleaded.
<P 117>
  "Oh, I think so - I hope so," said Bertha brightly.
  "I have had such a dr_e_a_d_f_u_l_ experience with a taxi-man; he
was m_o_s_t_ sinister. I couldn't get him to s_t_o_p_. The m_o_r_e_ I knocked
and called the f_a_s_t_e_r_ he went. And i_n_ the moonlight this b_i_z_a_r_r_e_
figure with the f_l_a_t_t_e_n_e_d_ head c_r_o_u_c_h_i_n_g_ over the
lit-tle wheel..."
  He shuddered, taking off an immense white silk scarf. Bertha
noticed that his socks were white, too - most charming.
  "But how dreadful!" she cried.
  "Yes, it really was," said Eddie, following her into the
drawing-room. "I saw myself dr_i_v_i_n_g_ through Eternity in a
ti_m_e_l_e_s_s_ taxi."
  He knew the Norman Knights. In fact, he was going to
write a play for N. K. when the theatre scheme came off.
  "Well, Warren, how's the play?" said Norman Knight,
dropping his monocle and giving his eye a moment in which to
rise to the surface before it was screwed down again.
  And Mrs. Norman Knight: "Oh, Mr. Warren, what happy
socks?"
  "I a_m_ so glad you like them," said he, staring at his feet.
"They seem to have got so m_u_c_h_ whiter since the moon rose."
And he turned his lean sorrowful young face to Bertha. "There
i_s_ a moon, you know."
  She wanted to cry: "I am sure there is - often - often!"
  He really was a most attractive person. But so was Face,
crouched before the fire in her banana skins, and so was Mug,
smoking a cigarette and saying as he flicked the ash: "Why
doth the bridegroom tarry?"
  "There he is, now."
  Bang went the front door open and shut. Harry shouted:
"Hullo, you people. Down in five minutes." And they heard
him swarm up the stairs. Bertha couldn't help smiling; she
knew how he loved doing things at high pressure. What,



after all, did an extra five minutes matter? But he would pretend
to himself that they mattered beyond measure. And then
he would make a great point of coming into the drawing-room,
extravagantly cool and collected.
  Harry had such a zest for life. Oh, how she appreciated it in
him. And his passion for fighting - for seeking in everything
that came up against him another test of his power and of his
courage - that, too,
<P 118>
she understood. Even when it made him
just occasionally, to other people, who didn't know him well,
a little ridiculous perhaps...For there were moments when he
rushed into battle where no battle was....She talked and
laughed and positively forgot until he had come in (just as she
had imagined) that Pearl Fulton had not turned up.
  "I wonder if Miss Fulton has forgotten?"
   "I expect so," said Harry. "Is she on the 'phone?"
  "Ah! There's a taxi now." And Bertha smiled with that
little air of proprietorship that she always assumed while her
women finds were new and mysterious. "She lives in taxis."
  "She'll run to fat if she does," said Harry coolly, ringing the
bell for dinner. "Frightful danger for blonde women."
  "Harry - don't," warned Bertha, laughing at him.
  Came another tiny moment, while they waited, laughing and
talking, just a trifle too much at their ease, a trifle too unaware.
And then Miss Fulton, all in silver, with a silver fillet binding her
pale blonde hair, came in smiling, her head a little on one side.
  "Am I late?"
  "No, not at all," said Bertha. "Come along." And she
took her arm and they moved into the dining-room.
  What was there in the touch of that cool arm that could fan
 - fan - start blazing - blazing - the fire of bliss that Bertha
did not know what to do with?
  Miss Fulton did not look at her; but then she seldom did
look at people directly. Her heavy eyelids lay upon her eyes
and the strange half-smile came and went upon her lips as
though she lived by listening rather than seeing. But Bertha


knew, suddenly, as if the longest, most intimate look had passed
between them - as if they had said to each other: "You, too?"
 - that Pearl Fulton, stirring the beautiful red soup in the grey
plate, was feeling just what she was feeling.
  And the others? Face and Mug, Eddie and Harry, their
spoons rising and falling - dabbing their lips with their napkins,
crumbling bread, fiddling with the forks and glasses and talking.
  "I met her at the Alpha show - the weirdest little person.
She'd not only cut off her hair, but she seemed to have taken a
dreadfully good
<P 119>
snip off her legs and arms and her neck and
her poor little nose as well."
  "Isn't she very l_i_e\_e_ with Michael Oat?"
  "The man who wrote L_o_v_e_ i_n_ Fa_l_s_e_ T_e_e_t_h_?"
  "He wants to write a play for me. One act. One man.
Decides to commit suicide. Gives all the reasons why he should
and why he shouldn't. And just as he has made up his mind
either to do it or not to do it - curtain. Not half a bad idea."
  "What's he going to call it - 'Stomach Trouble'?"
  "I th_i_n_k_ I've come across the s_a_m_e_ idea in a lit-tle French
review, qu_i_t_e_ unknown in England."
  No, they didn't share it. They were dears - dears - and she
loved having them there, at her table, and giving them delicious
food and wine. In fact, she longed to tell them how delightful
they were, and what a decorative group they made, how they
seemed to set one another off and how they reminded her of a
play by Tchekof!
  Harry was enjoying his dinner. It was part of his - well,
not his nature, exactly, and certainly not his pose - his - something
or other - to talk about food and to glory in his "shameless
passion for the white flesh of the lobster" and "the green
of pistachio ices - green and cold like the eyelids of Egyptian
dancers."
  When he looked up at her and said: "Bertha, this is a very
admirable s_o_u_f_f_l_e\_!" she almost could have wept with child-like
pleasure.


  Oh, why did she feel so tender towards the whole world
to-night? Everything was good - was right. All that happened
seemed to fill again her brimming cup of bliss.
  And still, in the back of her mind, there was the pear tree.
It would be silver now, in the light of poor dear Eddie's moon,
silver as Miss Fulton, who sat there turning a tangerine in her
slender fingers that were so pale a light seemed to come from
them.
  What she simply couldn't make out - what was miraculous
 - was how she should have guessed Miss Fulton's mood so
exactly and so instantly. For she never doubted for a moment
that she was right, and yet what had she to go on? Less than
nothing.
  "I believe this does happen very, very rarely between women.
<P 120>
Never between men," thought Bertha. "But while I am making
the coffee in the drawing-room perhaps she will 'give a
sign."'
  What she meant by that she did not know, and what would
happen after that she could not imagine.
  While she thought like this she saw herself talking and
laughing. She had to talk because of her desire to laugh.
  "I must laugh or die."
  But when she noticed Face's funny little habit of tucking
something down the front of her bodice - as if she kept a tiny,
secret hoard of nuts there, too - Bertha had to dig her nails into
her hands - so as not to laugh too much.
  It was over at last. And: "Come and see my new coffee
machine," said Bertha.
  "We only have a new coffe machine once a fortnight," said
Harry. Face took her arm this time; Miss Fulton bent her
head and followed after.
  The fire had died down in the drawing-room to a red, flickering
"nest of baby phoenixes," said Face.
  "Don't turn up the light for a moment. It is so lovely."


And down she crouched by the fire again. She was always
cold..."without her little red flannel jacket, of course," thought
Bertha.
  At that moment Miss Fulton "gave the sign."
  "Have you a garden?" said the cool, sleepy voice.
  This was so exquisite on her part that all Bertha could do
was to obey. She crossed the room, pulled the curtains apart,
and opened those long windows.
  "There!" she breathed.
  And the two women stood side by side looking at the slender,
flowering tree. Although it was so still it seemed, like the flame
of a candle, to stretch up, to point, to quiver in the bright air,
to grow taller and taller as they gazed - almost to touch the
rim of the round, silver moon.
  How long did they stand there? Both, as it were, caught in
that circle of unearthly light, understanding each other perfectly,
creatures of another world, and wondering what they were to
do in this
<P 121>
one with all this blissful treasure that burned in their
bosoms and dropped, in silver flowers, from their hair and
hands?
  For ever - for a moment? And did Miss Fulton murmur:
"Yes. Just t_h_a_t_." Or did Bertha dream it?
  Then the light was snapped on and Face made the coffee and
Harry said: "My dear Mrs. Knight, don't ask me about my
baby. I never see her. I shan't feel the slightest interest in her
until she has a lover," and Mug took his eye out of the
convervatory for a moment and then put it under glass again and
Eddie Warren drank his coffee and set down the cup with a face
of anguish as though he had drunk and seen the spider.
  "What I want to do is to give the young men a show. I
believe London is simply teeming with first-chop, unwritten
plays. What I want to say to 'em is: 'Here's the theatre. Fire
ahead."'
  "You know, my dear, I am going to decorate a room for the
Jacob Nathans. Oh, I am so tempted to do a fried-fish scheme,


with the backs of the chairs shaped like frying-pans and lovely
chip potatoes embroidered all over the curtains."
  "The trouble with our young writing men is that they are
still too romantic, You can't put out to sea without being seasick
and wanting a basin. Well, why won't they have the
courage of those basins?"
  "A d_r_e_a_d_f_u_l_ poem about a g_i_r_l_ who was v_i_o_l_a_t_e_d_ by a beggar
wi_t_h_o_u_t_ a nose in a lit-tle wood..."
  Miss Fulton sank into the lowest, deepest chair and Harry
handed round the cigarettes.
  From the way he stood in front of her shaking the silver box
and saying abruptly: "Egyptian? Turkish? Virginian?
They're all mixed up," Bertha realised that she not only bored
him; he really disliked her. And she decided from the way
Miss Fulton said: "No, thank you, I won't smoke," that she
felt it, too, and was hurt.
  "Oh, Harry, don't dislike her. You are quite wrong about
her. She's wonderful, wonderful. And, besides, how can you
feel so differently about someone who means so much to me.
I shall try to tell you when we are in bed to-night what has
been happening. What she and I have shared."
  At those words something strange and almost terrifying
<P 122>
darted into Bertha's mind. And this something blind and smiling
whispered to her: "Soon these people will go. The house will
be quiet - quiet. The lights will be out. And you and he
will be alone together in the dark room - the warm bed..."
  She jumped up from her chair and ran over to the piano.
  "What a pity someone does not play!" she cried. "What a
pity somebody does not play."
  For the first time in her life Bertha Young desired her husband.
  Oh, she'd loved him - she'd been in love with him, of course,
in every other way, but just not in that way. And equally, of
course, she'd understood that he was different. They'd discussed
it so often. It had worried her dreadfully at first to find


that she was so cold, but after a time it had not seemed to matter.
They were so frank with each other - such good pals. That
was the best part of being modern.
  But now - ardently! ardently! The word ached in her
ardent body! Was this what that feeling of bliss had been
leading up to? But then, then -
  "My dear," said Mrs. Norman Knight, "you know our
shame. We are the victims of time and train. We live in
Hampstead. It's been so nice."
  "I'll come with you into the hall," said Bertha. "I loved
having you. But you must not miss the last train. That's so
awful, isn't it?"
  "Have a whisky, Knight, before you go?" called Harry.
  "No, thanks, old chap."
  Bertha squeezed his hand for that as she shook it.
  "Good night, good-bye," she cried from the top step, feeling
that this self of hers was taking leave of them for ever.
  When she got back into the drawing-room the others were
on the move.
  "...Then you can come part of the way in my taxi."
 "I shall be s_o_thankful n_o_t_ to have to face a_n_o_t_h_e_r_ drive a_l_o_n_e_
after my dr_e_a_d_f_u_l_ experience."
  "You can get a taxi at the rank just at the end of the street.
You won't have to walk more than a few yards."
  "That's a comfort. I'll go and put on my coat."
  Miss Fulton moved towards the hall and Bertha was following
when Harry almost pushed past.
<P 123>
  "Let me help you."
  Bertha knew that he was repenting his rudeness - she let him
go. What a boy he was in some ways - so impulsive - so -
simple.
  And Eddie and she were left by the fire.
  "I wo_n_d_e_r_ if you have seen Bilks' n_e_w_ poem called T_a_b_l_e_
d_'_H_oŽ_t_e_," said Eddie softly. "It's s_o_ wonderful. In the last
Anthology. Have you got a copy? I'd s_o_ like to s_h_o_w_ it to


you. It begins with an i_n_c_r_e_d_i_b_l_y_ beautiful line: 'Why must
it Always be Tomato Soup?"'
  "Yes," said Bertha. And she moved noiselessly to a table
opposite the drawing-room door and Eddie glided noiselessly
after her. She picked up the little book and gave it to him;
they had not made a sound.
  While he looked it up she turned her head towards the hall.
And she saw...Harry with Miss Fulton's coat in his arms and
Miss Fulton with her back turned to him and her head bent.
He tossed the coat away, put his hands on her shoulders and
turned her violently to him. His lips said: "I adore you," and
Miss Fulton laid her moonbeam fingers on his cheeks and smiled
her sleepy smile. Harry's nostrils quivered; his lips curled
back in a hideous grin while he whispered: "To-morrow," and
with her eyelids Miss Fulton said "Yes."
  "Here it is," said Eddie. "Why Must it Always be Tomato
Soup? It's so d_e_e_p_l_y_ true, don't you feel? Tomato Soup is so
d_r_e_a_d_f_u_l_l_y_ eternal."
  "If you prefer," said Harry's voice, very loud, from the hall,
"I can 'phone you a cab to come to the door."
  "Oh, no. It's not necessary," said Miss Fulton, and she
came up to Bertha and gave her the slender fingers to hold.
  "Good-bye. Thank you so much."
  "Good-bye," said Bertha.
  Miss Fulton held her hand a moment longer.
  "Your lovely pear tree!" she murmured.
  And then she was gone, with Eddie following, like the black
cat following the grey cat.
  "I'll shut up shop," said Harry, extravagantly cool and
collected.
  "Your lovely pear tree - pear tree - pear tree!"
<P 124>
  Bertha simply ran over to the long windows.
  "Oh, what is going to happen now?" she cried.
  But the pear tree was as lovely as ever and as full of flower
and as still.


<T The Man Without A Temperament><P 142>
  He stood at the hall door turning the ring, turning the
heavy signet ring upon his little finger while his
glance travelled coolly, deliberately, over the round tables and
basket chairs scattered about the glassed-in veranda. He
pursed his lips - he might have been going to whistle - but he
did not whistle - only turned the ring - turned the ring on his
pink, freshly washed hands.
  Over in the corner sat The Two Topknots, drinking a decoction
they always drank at this hour - something whitish,
greyish, in glasses, with little husks floating on the top - and
rooting in a tin full of paper shavings for pieces of speckled
biscuit, which they broke, dropped into the glasses and fished
for with spoons. Their two coils of knitting, like two snakes,
slumbered beside the tray.
  The American Woman sat where she always sat against the
glass wall, in the shadow of a great creeping thing with wide
open purple eyes that pressed - that flattened itself against the
glass, hungrily watching her. And she knoo it was there - she
knoo it was looking at her just that way. She played up to it;
she gave herself little airs. Sometimes she even pointed at
it, crying: "Isn't that the most terrible thing you've ever
seen! Isn't that ghoulish!" It was on the other side of the
veranda, after all... and besides it couldn't touch her, could
it, Klaymongso? She was an American Woman, wasn't she,
Klaymongso, and she'd just go right away to her Consul. Klaymongso,
curled in her lap, with her torn antique brocade bag,
a grubby handkerchief, and a pile of letters from home on top
of him, sneezed for reply.
  The other tables were empty. A glance passed between the


American and the Topknots. She gave a foreign little shrug;
they waved an <P 143>
understanding biscuit. But he saw nothing.
Now he was still, now from his eyes you saw he listened.
"Hoo-e-zip-zoo-oo!" sounded the lift. The iron cage clanged
open. Light dragging steps sounded across the hall, coming
towards him. A hand, like a leaf, fell on his shoulder. A soft
voice said: "Let's go and sit over there - where we can see
the drive. The trees are so lovely." And he moved forward
with the hand still on his shoulder, and the light, dragging steps
beside his. He pulled out a chair and she sank into it, slowly,
leaning her head against the back, her arms falling along the
sides.
  "Won't you bring the other up closer? It's such miles away."
But he did not move.
  "Where's your shawl?" he asked.
  "Oh!" She gave a little groan of dismay. "How silly I
am, I've left it upstairs on the bed. Never mind. Please don't
go for it. I shan't want it, I know I shan't."
  "You'd better have it." And he turned and swiftly crossed
the veranda into the dim hall with its scarlet plush and gilt
furniture - conjuror's furniture - its Notice of Services at the
English Church, its green baize board with the unclaimed letters
climbing the black lattice, huge "Presentation" clock that struck
the hours at the half-hours, bundles of sticks and umbrellas and
sunshades in the clasp of a brown wooden bear, past the two
crippled palms, two ancient beggars at the foot of the staircase,
up the marble stairs three at a time, past the life-size group on
the landing of two stout peasant children with their marble
pinnies full of marble grapes, and along the corridor, with its
piled-up wreckage of old tin boxes, leather trunks, canvas hold-alls,
to their room.
  The servant girl was in their room, singing loudly while she
emptied soapy water into a pail. The windows were open wide,
the shutters put back, and the light glared in. She had thrown
the carpets and the big white pillows over the balcony rails;


the nets were looped up from the beds; on the writing-table
there stood a pan of fluff and match-ends. When she saw him
her small, impudent eyes snapped and her singing changed to
humming. But he gave no sign. His eyes searched the glaring
room. Where the devil was the shawl!
  "V_o_u_s_ d_e_s_i_r_e_z_, m_o_n_s_i_e_u_r_?" mocked the servant girl.
<P 144>
  No answer. He had seen it. He strode across the room,
grabbed the grey cobweb and went out, banging the door. The
servant girl's voice at its loudest and shrillest followed him
along the corridor.
  "Oh, there you are. What happened? What kept you?
The tea's here, you see. I've just sent Antonio off for the hot
water. Isn't it extraordinary? I must have told him about it
sixty times at least, and still he doesn't bring it. Thank you.
That's very nice. One does just feel the air when one bends
forward."
  "Thanks." He took his tea and sat down in the other chair.
"No, nothing to eat."
  "Oh do! Just one, you had so little at lunch and it's hours
before dinner."
  Her shawl dropped off as she bent forward to hand him the
biscuits. He took one and put it in his saucer.
  "Oh, those trees along the drive," she cried. "I could look
at them for ever. They are like the most exquisite huge ferns.
And you see that one with the grey-silver bark and the clusters
of cream-coloured flowers, I pulled down a head of them
yesterday to smell, and the scent" - she shut her eyes at the
memory and her voice thinned away, faint, airy - "was like
freshly ground nutmegs." A little pause. She turned to him
and smiled. "You do know what nutmegs smell like - do
you, Robert?"
  And he smiled back at her. "Now how am I going to prove
to you that I do?"
  Back came Antonio with not only the hot water - with
letters on a salver and three rolls of paper.


  "Oh, the post! Oh, how lovely! Oh, Robert, they mustn't
be all for you! Have they just come, Antonio?" Her thin
hands flew up and hovered over the letters that Antonio offered
her, bending forward.
  "Just this moment, Signora," grinned Antonio. "I took-a
them from the postman myself. I made-a the postman give
them for me."
  "Noble Antonio!" laughed she. "There - those are mine,
Robert; the rest are yours!'
  Antonio wheeled sharply, stiffened, the grin went out of
his face. His striped linen jacket and his flat gleaming fringe
made him look like a wooden doll.
  Mr. Salesby put the letters into his pocket; the papers lay
on the
<P 145>
table. He turned the ring, turned the signet ring on his
little finger and stared in front of him, blinking, vacant.
  But she - with her teacup in one hand, the sheets of thin
paper in the other, her head tilted back, her lips open, a brush
of bright colour on her cheek-bones, sipped, sipped, drank...
drank...
  "From Lottie," came her soft murmur. "Poor dear...such
trouble...left foot. She thought...neuritis...Doctor
Blyth...flat foot...massage. So many robins this year...
maid most satisfactory...Indian Colonel...every grain of
rice separate...very heavy fall of snow." And her wide
lighted eyes looked up from the letter. "Snow, Robert!
Think of it!" And she touched the little dark violets pinned
on her thin bosom and went back to the letter.
  ...Snow. Snow in London. Millie with the early morning
cup of tea. "There's been a terrible fall of snow in the night,
sir." "Oh, has there, Millie?" The curtains ring apart, letting
in the pale, reluctant light. He raises himself in the bed; he
catches a glimpse of the solid houses opposite framed in white,
of their window boxes full of great sprays of white coral....In
the bathroom - overlooking the back garden. Snow - heavy


snow over everything. The lawn is covered with a wavy
pattern of cat's paws; there is a thick, thick icing on the garden
table; the withered pods of the laburnum tree are white tassels;
only here and there in the ivy is a dark leaf showing...Warming
his back at the dining-room fire, the paper drying over a
chair. Millie with the bacon. "Oh, if you please, sir, there's
two little boys come as will do the steps and front for a shilling,
shall I let them?"...And then flying lightly, lightly down the
stairs - Jinnie. "Oh, Robert, isn't it wonderful! Oh, what a
pity it has to melt. Where's the pussy-wee?" "I'll get him
from Millie"..."Millie, you might just hand me up the kitten
if you've got him down there." "Very good, sir." He feels
the little beating heart under his hand. "Come on, old chap,
your missus wants you." "Oh, Robert, do show him the
snow - his first snow. Shall I open the window and give him
a little piece on his paw to hold?"
  "Well, that's very satisfactory on the whole - very. Poor
Lottie! Darling Anne! How I only wish I could send them
something of
<P 146>
this," she cried, waving her letters at the brilliant,
dazzling garden. "More tea, Robert? Robert dear, more tea?"
  "No, thanks, no. It was very good," he drawled.
  "Well, mine wasn't. Mine was just like chopped hay. Oh,
here comes the Honeymoon Couple."
  Half striding, half running, carrying a basket between them
and rods and lines, they came up the drive, up the shallow steps.
  "My! have you been out fishing?" cried the American
Woman.
  They were out of breath, they panted: "Yes, yes, we
have been out in a little boat all day. We have caught
seven. Four are good to eat. But three we shall give away.
To the children."
  Mrs. Salesby turned her chair to look; the Topknots laid
the snakes down. They were a very dark young couple - black
hair, olive skin, brilliant eyes and teeth. He was dressed


"English fashion" in a flannel jacket, white trousers and shoes.
Round his neck he wore a silk scarf; his head, with his hair
brushed back, was bare. And he kept mopping his forehead,
rubbing his hands with a brilliant handkerchief. Her white
skirt had a patch of wet; her neck and throat were stained a
deep pink. When she lifted her arms big half-hoops of perspiration
showed under her arm-pits; her hair clung in wet curls to
her cheeks. She looked as though her young husband had
been dipping her in the sea and fishing her out again to dry in
the sun and then - in with her again - all day.
  "Would Klaymongso like a fish?" they cried. Their
laughing voices charged with excitement beat against the
glassed-in veranda like birds and a strange, saltish smell came
from the basket.
  "You will sleep well to-night," said a Topknot, picking her
ear with a knitting needle while the other Topknot smiled and
nodded.
  The Honeymoon Couple looked at each other. A great wave
seemed to go over them. They gasped, gulped, staggered a
little and then came up laughing - laughing.
  "We cannot go upstairs, we are too tired. We must have
tea just as we are. Here - coffee. No - tea. No - coffee.
Tea - coffee, Antonio!" Mrs. Salesby turned.
  "Robert! Robert!" Where was he? He wasn't there.
Oh, there he was at the other end of the veranda, with his
back turned, smoking a cigarette. "Robert, shall we go for
our little turn?"
<P 147>
  "Right." He stumped the cigarette into an ash-tray and
sauntered over, his eyes on the ground. "Will you be warm
enough?"
  "Oh, quite."
  "Sure?"
  "Well," she put her hand on his arm, "perhaps" - and
gave his arm the faintest pressure - "it's not upstairs, it's only in
the hall - perhaps you'd get me my cape. Hanging up."


He came back with it and she bent her small head while he
dropped it on her shoulders. Then, very stiff, he offered her
his arm. She bowed sweetly to the people on the veranda
while he just covered a yawn, and they went down the steps
together.
  "V_o_u_s_ a_v_e_z_ v_o_o_ c²_a_!" said the American Woman.
  "He is not a man," said the Two Topknots, "he is an ox.
I say to my sister in the morning and at night when we are in
bed, I tell her - N_o_ man is he, but an ox!"
  Wheeling, tumbling, swooping, the laughter of the Honeymoon
Couple dashed against the glass of the veranda.
  The sun was still high. Every leaf, every flower in the
garden lay open, motionless, as if exhausted, and a sweet, rich
rank smell filled the quivering air. Out of the thick, fleshy
leaves of a cactus there rose an aloe stem loaded with pale
flowers that looked as though they had been cut out of butter;
light flashed upon the lifted spears of the palms; over a bed of
scarlet waxen flowers some big black insects "zoom-zoomed";
a great, gaudy creeper, orange splashed with jet, sprawled
against a wall.
  "I don't need my cape after all," said she. "It's really too
warm." So he took it off and carried it over his arm. "Let
us go down this path here. I feel so well to-day - marvellously
better. Good heavens - look at those children! And to think
it's November!"
  In a corner of the garden there were two brimming tubs of
water. Three little girls, having thoughtfully taken off their
drawers and hung them on a bush, their skirts clasped to their
waists, were standing in the tubs and tramping up and down.
They screamed, their hair fell over their faces, they splashed one
another. But suddenly, the smallest, who had a tub to herself,
glanced up and saw who was looking. For a moment she
seemed overcome with terror, then clumsily she struggled and
strained out of her tub, and still holding her clothes above her
<P 148>
waist, "The Englishman! The Englishman!" she shrieked


and fled away to hide. Shrieking and screaming the other two
followed her. In a moment they were gone; in a moment there
was nothing but the two brimming tubs and their little drawers
on the bush.
  "How - very - extraordinary!" said she. "What made
them so frightened? Surely they were much too young to..."
She looked up at him. She thought he looked pale - but
wonderfully handsome with that great tropical tree behind him
with its long, spiked thorns.
  For a moment he did not answer. Then he met her glance,
and smiling his slow smile, "T_r_e\_s_ rum!" said he.
  T_r_e\_s_ rum! Oh, she felt quite faint. Oh, why should she
love him so much just because he said a thing like that. T_r_e\_s_
rum! That was Robert all over. Nobody else but Robert
could ever say such a thing. To be so wonderful, so brilliant,
so learned, and then to say in that queer, boyish voice...She
could have wept.
  "You know you're very absurd, sometimes," said she.
  "I am," he answered. And they walked on.
  But she was tired. She had had enough. She did not want
to walk any more.
  "Leave me here and go for a little constitutional, won't
you? I'll be in one of these long chairs. What a good thing
you've got my cape; you won't have to go upstairs for a rug.
Thank you, Robert, I shall look at that delicious heliotrope...
You won't be gone long?"
  "No - no. You don't mind being left?"
  "Silly! I want you to go. I can't expect you to drag after
your invalid wife every minute.... How long will you be?"
  He took out his watch. "It's just after half-past four. I'll
be back at a quarter-past five."
  "Back at a quarter-past five," she repeated, and she lay still
in the long chair and folded her hands.
  He turned away. Suddenly he was back again. "Look here,
would you like my watch?" And he dangled it before her.


  "Oh!" She caught her breath. "Very, very much." And
she clasped the watch, the warm watch, the darling watch in
her fingers. "Now go quickly."
<P 149>
  The gates of the Pension Villa Excelsior were open wide,
jammed open against some bold geraniums. Stooping a little,
staring straight ahead, walking swiftly, he passed through them
and began climbing the hill that wound behind the town like a
great rope looping the villas together. The dust lay thick. A
carriage came bowling along driving towards the Excelsior.
In it sat the General and the Countess; they had been for his
daily airing. Mr. Salesby stepped to one side but the dust beat
up, thick, white, stifling like wool. The Countess just had
time to nudge the General.
  "There he goes," she said spitefully.
  But the General gave a loud caw and refused to look.
  "It is the Englishman," said the driver, turning round and
smiling. And the Countess threw up her hands and nodded
so amiably that he spat with satisfaction and gave the stumbling
horse a cut.
  On - on - past the finest villas in the town, magnificent
palaces, palaces worth coming any distance to see, past the
public gardens with the carved grottoes and statues and stone
animals drinking at the fountain, into a poorer quarter. Here
the road ran narrow and foul between high lean houses, the
ground floors of which were scooped and hollowed into stables
and carpenters' shops. At a fountain ahead of him two old
hags were beating linen. As he passed them they squatted
back on their haunches, stared, and then their "A-hak-kak-kak!"
with the slap, slap, of the stone on the linen sounded
after him.
  He reached the top of the hill; he turned a corner and the
town was hidden. Down he looked into a deep valley with a
dried-up river bed at the bottom. This side and that was
covered with small dilapidated houses that had broken stone
verandas where the fruit lay drying, tomato lanes in the


garden and from the gates to the doors a trellis of vines. The
late sunlight, deep, golden, lay in the cup of the valley; there
was a smell of charcoal in the air. In the gardens the men were
cutting grapes. He watched a man standing in the greenish
shade, raising up, holding a black cluster in one hand, taking the
knife from his belt, cutting, laying the bunch in a flat boat-shaped
basket. The man worked leisurely, silently, taking
hundreds of years over the job. On the hedges on the other
side of the road there were grapes small as berries, growing
wild, growing among
<P 150>
the stones. He leaned against a wall,
filled his pipe, put a match to it...
  Leaned across a gate, turned up the collar of his mackintosh.
It was going to rain. It didn't matter, he was prepared for it.
You didn't expect anything else in November. He looked over
the bare field. From the corner by the gate there came the smell
of swedes, a great stack of them, wet, rank coloured. Two
men passed walking towards the straggling village. "Good
day!" "Good day!" By Jove! he had to hurry if he was
going to catch that train home. Over the gate, across a field,
over the stile, into the lane, swinging along in the drifting rain
and dusk. .. Just home in time for a bath and a change before
supper...In the drawing-room; Jinnie is sitting pretty nearly
in the fire. "Oh, Robert, I didn't hear you come in. Did you
have a good time? How nice you smell! A present?" "Some
bits of blackberry I picked for you. Pretty colour." "Oh,
lovely, Robert! Dennis and Beaty are coming to supper."
Supper - cold beef, potatoes in their jackets, claret, household
bread. They are gay - everybody's laughing. "Oh, we all
know Robert," says Dennis, breathing on his eyeglasses and
polishing them. "By the way, Dennis, I picked up a very jolly
little edition of..."
  A clock struck. He wheeled sharply. What time was it.
Five? A quarter past? Back, back the way he came. As he


passed through the gates he saw her on the look-out. She got
up, waved and slowly she came to meet him, dragging the heavy
cape. In her hand she carried a spray of heliotrope.
  "You're late," she cried gaily. "You're three minutes late.
Here's your watch, it's been very good while you were away.
Did you have a nice time? Was it lovely? Tell me. Where
did you go?"
  "I say - put this o_n_," he said, taking the cape from her.
  "Yes, I will. Yes, it's getting chilly. Shall we go up to our
room?"
  When they reached the lift she was coughing. He frowned.
"It's nothing. I haven't been out too late. Don't be cross."
She sat down on one of the red plush chairs while he rang and
rang, and then, getting no answer, kept his finger on the bell.
  "Oh, Robert, do you think you ought to?"
<P 151>
  "Ought to what?"
  The door of the s_a_l_o_n_ opened. "What is that? Who is
making that noise?" sounded from within. Klaymongso began
to yelp. "Caw! Caw! Caw!" came from the General. A
Topknot darted out with one hand to her ear, opened the staff
door, "Mr Queet! Mr. Queet!" she bawled. That brought
the manager up at a run.
  "Is that you ringing the bell, Mr. Salesby? Do you want the
lift? Very good, sir. I'll take you up myself. Antonio wouldn't
have been a minute, he was just taking off his apron - " And
having ushered them in, the oily manager went to the door of
the s_a_l_o_n_. "Very sorry you should have been troubled, ladies
and gentlemen." Salesby stood in the cage, sucking in his
cheeks, staring at the ceiling and turning the ring, turning the
signet ring on his little finger...
  Arrived in their room he went swiftly over to the washstand,
shook the bottle, poured her out a dose and brought it across.
  "Sit down. Drink it. And don't talk." And he stood over
her while she obeyed. Then he took the glass, rinsed it and
put it back in its case. "Would you like a cushion?"


  "No, I'm quite all right. Come over here. Sit down by
me just a minute, will you, Robert? Ah, that's very nice."
She turned and thrust the piece of heliotrope in the lapel of
his coat. "That," she said, "is most becoming." And then
she leaned her head against his shoulder and he put his arm
round her.
  "Robert - " her voice like a sigh - like a breath.
  "Yes - "
  They sat there for a long while. The sky flamed, paled;
the two white beds were like two ships... At last he heard the
servant girl running along the corridor with the hot-water
cans, and gently released her and turned on the light.
  "Oh, what time is it? Oh, what a heavenly evening. Oh,
Robert, I was thinking while you were away this afternoon..."
  They were the last couple to enter the dining-room. The
Countess was there with her lorgnette and her fan, the General
was there with his special chair and the air cushion and the
small rug over his knees. The American Woman was there
showing Klaymongso a copy of the S_a_t_u_r_d_a_y_ E_v_e_n_i_n_g_ P_o_s_t_.
..."We're having a feast of reason and a flow of soul." The
Two Topknots were there feeling over the
<P 152>
peaches and the
pears in their dish of fruit and putting aside all they considered
unripe or overripe to show  to the manager, and the Honeymoon
Couple leaned across the table, whispering, trying not to burst
out laughing.
  Mr. Queet, in everyday clothes and white canvas shoes,
served the soup, and Antonio, in full evening dress, handed it
round.
  "No," said the American Woman, "take it away, Antonio.
We can't eat soup. We can't eat anything mushy, can we,
Klaymongso?"
  "Take them back and fill them to the rim!" said the Topknots,
and they turned and watched while Antonio delivered
the message.
  "What is it? Rice? Is it cooked?" The Countess peered


through her lorgnette. "Mr. Queet, the General can have
some of this soup if it is cooked."
  "Very good, Countess."
  The Honeymoon Couple had their fish instead.
  "Give me that one. That's the one I caught. No, it's not.
Yes, it is. No, it's not. Well, it's looking at me with its eye,
so it must be. Tee! Hee! Hee!" Their feet were locked
together under the table.
  "Robert, you're not eating again. Is anything the matter?"
  "No. Off food, that's all."
  "Oh, what a bother. There are eggs and spinach coming.
You don't like spinach, do you. I must tell them in future..."
  An egg and mashed potatoes for the General.
  "Mr. Queet! Mr. Queet!"
  "Yes, Countess."
  "The General's egg's too hard again."
  "Caw! Caw! Caw!"
  "Very sorry, Countess. Shall I have you another cooked,
General?"
  ...They are the first to leave the dining-room. She rises,
gathering her shawl and he stands aside, waiting for her to
pass, turning the ring, turning the signet ring on his little finger.
In the hall Mr. Queet hovers. "I thought you might not want
to wait for the lift. Antonio's just serving the finger bowls.
And I'm sorry the bell won't ring, it's out of order. I can't
think what's happened."
  "Oh, I do hope..." from her.
  Get in," says he.
<P 153>
  Mr. Queet steps after them and slams the door...
  "...Robert, do you mind if I go to bed very soon? Won't
you go down to the s_a_l_o_n_ or out into the garden? Or perhaps
you might smoke a cigar on the balcony. It's lovely out there.
And I like cigar smoke. I always did. But if you'd rather..."
  "No, I'll sit here."
  He takes a chair and sits on the balcony. He hears her


moving about in the room, lightly, lightly, moving and rustling.
Then she comes over to him. "Good night, Robert."
  "Good night." He takes her hand and kisses the palm.
"Don't catch cold."
  The sky is the colour of jade. There are a great many stars;
an emormous white moon hangs over the garden. Far away
lightning flutters - flutters like a wing - flutters like a broken
bird that tries to fly and sinks again and again struggles.
  The lights from the s_a_l_o_n_ shine across the garden path and
there is the sound of a piano. And once the American Woman,
opening the French window to let Klaymongso into the garden,
cries: "Have you seen this moon?" But nobody answers.
  He gets very cold sitting there, staring at the balcony rail.
Finally he comes inside. The moon - the room is painted white
with moonlight. The light trembles in the mirrors; the two
beds seem to float. She is asleep. He sees her through the
nets, half sitting, banked up with pillows, her white hands
crossed on the sheet. Her white cheeks, her fair hair pressed
against the pillow, are silvered over. He undresses quickly,
stealthily and gets into bed. Lying there, his hands clasped
behind his head...
  ...In his study. Late summer. The virginia creeper just
on the turn...
  "Well, my dear chap, that's the whole story. That's the
long and short of it. If she can't cut away for the next two
years and give a decent climate a chance she don't stand a dog's
 - h'm - show. Better be frank about these things." "Oh,
certainly..." "And hang it all, old man, what's to prevent
you going with her? It isn't as though you've got a regular
job like us wage earners. You can do what you do wherever
you are - " "Two years." "Yes, I should give it two years.
<P 154>
You'll have no trouble about letting this house, you know. As
a matter of fact..."
  ...He is with her. "Robert, the awful thing is - I suppose


it's my illness - I simply feel I could not go alone. You see -
you're everything. You're bread and wine, Robert, bread and
wine. Oh, my darling - what am I saying? Of course I could,
of course I won't take you away..."
  He hears her stirring. Does she want something?
  "Boogles?"
  Good Lord! She is talking in her sleep. They haven't used
that name for years.
  "Boogles. Are you awake?"
  "Yes, do you want anything?"
  "Oh, I'm going to be a bother. I'm sorry. Do you mind?
There's a wretched mosquito inside my net - I can hear him
singing. Would you catch him? I don't want to move because
of my heart."
  "No, don't move. Stay where you are." He switches on
the light, lifts the net. "Where is the little beggar? Have you
spotted him?"
  "Yes, there, over by the corner. Oh, I do feel such a
fiend to have dragged you out of bed. Do you mind
dreadfully?"
  "No, of course not." For a moment he hovers in his blue
and white pyjamas. Then, "got him," he said.
  "Oh, good. Was he a juicy one?"
  "Beastly." He went over to the washstand and dipped his
fingers in water. "Are you all right now? Shall I switch off
the light?"
  "Yes, please. No. Boogles! Come back here a moment.
Sit down by me. Give me your hand." She turns his signet
ring. "Why weren't you asleep? Boogles, listen. Come
closer. I sometimes wonder - do you mind awfully being out
here with me?"
  He bends down. He kisses her. He tucks her in, he smooths
the pillow.
  "Rot!" he whispers.


<T Sun and Moon><P 164>
  In the afternoon the chairs came, a whole big cart full of
little gold ones with their legs in the air. And then the
flowers came. When you stared down from the balcony at the


people carrying them the flowerpots looked like funny awfully
nice hats nodding up the path.
  Moon thought they were hats. She said: "Look. there's
a man wearing a palm on his head." But she never knew the
difference between real things and not real ones.
  There was nobody to look after Sun and Moon. Nurse
was helping Annie alter Mother's dress which was much-too
long-and tight-under-the-arms and Mother was running all
over the house and telephoning Father to be sure not to forget
things. She only had time to say: "Out of my way, children!"
  They kept out of her way - at any rate Sun did. He did so
hate being sent stumping back to the nursery. It didn't matter
about Moon. If she got tangled in people's legs they only
threw her up and shook her till she squeaked. But Sun was too
heavy for that. He was so heavy that the fat man who came to
dinner on Sundays used to say: "Now, young man, let's try
to lift you." And then he'd put his thumbs under Sun's arms
and groan and try and give it up at last saying: "He's a perfect
little ton of bricks!"
  Nearly all the furniture was taken out of the dining-room.
The big piano was put in a corner and then there came a row of
flower pots and then there came the goldy chairs. That was for
the concert. When Sun looked in a white-faced man sat at the
piano - not playing, but banging at it and then looking inside.
He had a bag of tools on the piano and he had stuck his hat on a
statue against the wall.
<P 165>
Sometimes he just started to play and
then he jumped up again and looked inside. Sun hoped he
wasn't the concert.
  But of course the place to be in was the kitchen. There was
a man helping in a cap like a blancmange, and their real cook,
Minnie, was all red in the face and laughing. Not cross at all.
She gave them each an almond finger and lifted them up on to the
flour bin so that they could watch the wonderful things she and
the man were making for supper. Cook brought in the things
and he put them on dishes and trimmed them. Whole fishes,


with their heads and eyes and tails still on, he sprinkled with
red and green and yellow bits; he made squiggles all over the
jellies, he stuck a collar on a ham and put a very thin sort of a
fork in it; he dotted almonds and tiny round biscuits on the
creams. And more and more things kept coming.
  "Ah, but you haven't seen the ice pudding," said Cook.
"Come along." Why was she being so nice, thought Sun as
she gave them each a hand. And they looked into the
refigerator.
  Oh! Oh! Oh! It was a little house. It was a little pink
house with white snow on the roof and green windows and a
brown door and stuck in the door there was a nut for a handle.
  When Sun saw the nut he felt quite tired and had to lean
against Cook.
  "Let me touch it. Just let me put my finger on the roof,"
said Moon, dancing. She always wanted to touch all the food.
Sun didn't.
  "Now, my girl, look sharp with the table," said Cook as
the housemaid came in.
  "It's a picture, Min," said Nellie. "Come along and have a
look." So they all went into the dining-room. Sun and Moon
were almost frightened. They wouldn't go up to the table at
first; they just stood at the door and made eyes at it.
  It wasn't real night yet but the blinds were down in the
dining-room and the lights turned on - and all the lights were
red roses. Red ribbons and bunches of roses tied up the table
at the corners. In the middle was a lake with rose petals floating
on it.
  "That's where the ice pudding is to be," said Cook.
  Two silver lions with wings had fruit on their backs and the
salt-cellars were tiny birds drinking out of basins.
<P 166>
  And all the winking glasses and shining plates and sparkling
knives and forks - and all the food. And the little red table
napkins made into roses....
  "Are people going to eat the food?" asked Sun.


  "I should think they are," laughed Cook, laughing
with Nellie. Moon laughed, too; she always did the same as
other people. But Sun didn't want to laugh. Round and
round he walked with his hands behind his back. Perhaps he
never would have stopped if Nurse hadn't called suddenly:
"Now then, children. It's high time you were washed and
dressed." And they were marched off to the nursery.
  While they were being unbuttoned Mother looked in with a
white thing over her shoulders; she was rubbing stuff on her
face.
  "I'll ring for them when I want them, Nurse, and then they
can just come down and be seen and go back again," said she.
  Sun was undressed, first nearly to his skin, and dressed again
in a white shirt with red and white daisies speckled on it,
breeches with strings at the sides and braces that came over,
white socks and red shoes.
  "Now you're in your Russian costume," said Nurse, flattening down his fringe.
  "Am I?" said Sun.
  "Yes. Sit quiet in that chair and watch your little sister."
  Moon took ages. When she had her socks put on she pretended
to fall back on the bed and waved her legs at Nurse as
she always did, and every time Nurse tried to make her curls
with a finger and a wet brush she turned round and asked
Nurse to show her the photo of her brooch or something like
that. But at last she was finished too. Her dress stuck out,
with fur on it, all white; there was even fluffy stuff on the
legs of her drawers. Her shoes were white with big blobs
on them.
  "There you are, my lamb," said Nurse. "And you look
like a sweet little cherub of a picture of a powder-puff?" Nurse
rushed to the door. "Ma'am, one moment."
  Mother came in again with half her hair down.
  "Oh," she cried. "What a picture!"
  "Isn't she," said Nurse.


<P 167>
  And Moon held out her skirts by the tips and dragged one
of her feet. Sun didn't mind people not noticing him - much....
  After that they played clean, tidy games up at the table while
Nurse stood at the door, and when the carriages began to come
and the sound of laughter and voices and soft rustlings came
from down below she whispered: "Now then, children, stay
where you are." Moon kept jerking the tablecloth so that it
all hung down her side and Sun hadn't any - and then she
pretended she didn't do it on purpose.
  At last the bell rang. Nurse pounced at them with the
hair-brush, flattened his fringe, made her bow stand on end
and joined their hands together.
  "Down you go!" she whispered.
  And down they went. Sun did feel silly holding Moon's
hand like that but Moon seemed to like it. She swung her
arm and the bell on her coral bracelet jingled.
  At the drawing-room door stood Mother fanning herself
with a black fan. The drawing-room was full of sweet-smelling,
silky, rustling ladies and men in black with funny tails on their
coats - like beetles. Father was among them, talking very
loud, and rattling something in his pocket.
  "What a picture!" cried the ladies. "Oh, the ducks! Oh,
the lambs! Oh, the sweets! Oh, the pets!"
  All the people who couldn't get at Moon kissed Sun, and a
skinny old lady with teeth that clicked said: "Such a serious
little poppet," and rapped him on the head with something
hard.
  Sun looked to see if the same concert was there, but he was
gone. Instead, a fat man with a pink head leaned over the
piano talking to a girl who held a violin at her ear.
  There was only one man that Sun really liked. He was a little
grey man, with long grey whiskers, who walked about by
himself. He came up to Sun and rolled his eyes in a very nice
way and said: "Hullo, my lad." Then he went away. But
soon he came back again and said: "Fond of dogs?" Sun


said: "Yes." But then he went away again, and though Sun
looked for him everywhere he couldn't find him. He thought
perhaps he had gone outside to fetch in a puppy.
<P 168>
  "Good night, my precious babies," said Mother, folding
them up in her bare arms. "Fly up to your little nest."
  Then Moon went and made a silly of herself again. She
put up her arms in front of everybody and said: "My Daddy
must carry me."
  But they seemed to like it, and Daddy swooped down and
picked her up as he always did.
  Nurse was in such a hurry to get them to bed that she even
interrupted Sun over his prayers and said: "Get on with them,
child, d_o_." And the moment after they were in bed and in the
dark except for the night-light in its little saucer.
  "Are you asleep?" asked Moon.
  "No," said Sun. "Are you?"
  "No," said Moon.
  A long time after Sun woke up again. There was a loud,
loud noise of clapping from downstairs, like when it rains.
He heard Moon turn over.
  "Moon, are you awake?"
  "Yes, are you?"
  "Yes. Well, let's go and look over the stairs."
  They had just got settled on the top step when the drawing-room
door opened and they heard the party cross over the hall
into the dining-room. Then that door was shut; there was
a noise of "pops" and laughing. Then that stopped and Sun
saw them all walking round and round the lovely table with
their hands behind their backs like he had done...Round and
round they walked, looking and staring. The man with the
grey whiskers liked the little house best. When he saw the
nut for a handle he rolled his eyes like he did before and said
to Sun: "Seen the nut?"
  "Don't nod your head like that, Moon."
  "I'm not nodding. It's you."


  "It is not. I never nod my head."
  "O-oh, you do. You're nodding it now."
  "I'm not. I'm only showing you how not to do it."
  When they woke up again they could only hear Father's
voice very loud, and Mother, laughing away. Father came
out of the dining-room, bounded up the stairs, and nearly fell
over them.
  "Hullo!" he said. "By Jove, Kitty, come and look at
this."
<P 169>
  Mother came out. "Oh, you naughty children," said she
from the hall.
  "Let's have 'em down and give 'em a bone," said Father.
Sun had never seen him so jolly.
  "No, certainly not," said Mother.
  "Oh, my Daddy, do! Do have us down," said Moon.
  "I'm hanged if I won't," cried Father. "I won't be bullied.
Kitty - way there." And he caught them up, one under each
arm.
  Sun thought Mother would have been dreadfully cross. But
she wasn't. She kept on laughing at Father.
  "Oh, you dreadful boy!" said she. But she didn't mean Sun.
  "Come on, kiddies. Come and have some pickings," said
this jolly Father. But moon stopped a minute.
  "Mother - your dress is right off one side."
  "Is it?" said Mother. And Father said "Yes" and pretended
to bite her white shoulder, but she pushed him away.
  And so they went back to the beautiful dining-room.
  But - oh! oh! what had happened. The ribbons and the
roses were all pulled untied. The little red table-napkins lay
on the floor, all the shining plates were dirty and all the winking
glasses. The lovely food that the man had trimmed was all
thrown about, and there were bones and bits and fruit peels
and shells everywhere. There was even a bottle lying down
with stuff coming out of it on to the cloth and nobody stood
it up again.


  And the little pink house with the snow roof and the green
window was broken - broken - half melted away in the centre
of the table.
  "Come on,Sun," said Father, pretending not to notice.
  Moon lifted up her pyjama legs and shuffled up to the table
and stood on a chair, squeaking away.
  "Have a bit of this ice," said Father, smashing in some more
of the roof.
  Mother took a little plate and held it for him; she put her
other arm round his neck.
  "Daddy! Daddy!" shrieked Moon. "The little handle's
left. The little nut. Kin I eat it?" And she reached across
and picked it out of the door and scrunched it up, biting hard
and blinking.
<P 170>
  "Here, my lad," said Father.
  But Sun did not move from the door. Suddenly he put up
his head and gave a loud wail.
  "I think it's horrid - horrid - horrid!" he sobbed.
  "There, you see!" said Mother. "You see!"
  "Off with you," said Father, no longer jolly. "This moment.
Off you go!"
  And waling loudly, Sun stumped off to the nursery.


<T The Garden-Party><Y 1922><P 237>
  And after all the weather was ideal. They could not
have had a more perfect day for a garden-party if they
had ordered it. Windless, warm, the sky without a cloud.
Only the blue was veiled with a haze of light gold, as it is sometimes
in early summer. The gardener had been up since dawn,
mowing the lawns and sweeping them, until the grass and the
dark flat rosettes where the daisy plants had been seemed to
shine. As for the roses, you could not help feeling they understood
that roses are the only flowers that impress people at
garden-parties; the only flowers that everybody is certain of
knowing. Hundreds, yes, literally hundreds, had come out in
a single night; the green bushes bowed down as though they
had been visited by archangels.
  Breakfast was not yet over before the men came to put up
the marquee.
  "Where do you want the marquee put, mother?"
  "My dear child, it's no use asking me. I'm determined to
leave everything to you children this year. Forget I am your
mother. Treat me as an honoured guest."
  But Meg could not possibly go and supervise the men. She
had washed her hair before breakfast, and she sat drinking her
coffee in a green turban, with a dark wet curl stamped on each


cheek. Jose, the butterfly, always came down in a silk petticoat
and a kimono jacket.
  "You'll have to go, Laura; you're the artistic one."
  Away Laura flew, still holding her piece of bread-and-butter.
It's so delicious to have an excuse for eating out of doors and
besides, she loved having to arrange things; she always felt
she could do it so much better than anybody else.
<P 238>
  Four men in their shirt-sleeves stood grouped together on
the garden path. They carried staves covered with rolls of
canvas and they had big tool-bags slung on their backs. They
looked impressive. Laura wished now that she was not holding
that piece of bread-and-butter, but there was nowhere to put
it and she couldn't possibly throw it away. She blushed and
tried to look severe and even a little bit short-sighted as she
came up to them.
  "Good morning," she said, copying her mother's voice.
But that sounded so fearfully affected that she was ashamed, and
stammered like a little girl, "Oh - er - have you come - is it
about the marquee?"
  "That's right, miss," said the tallest of the men, a lanky,
freckled fellow, and he shifted his tool-bag, knocked back his
straw hat and smiled down at her. "That's about it."
  His smile was so easy, so friendly, that Laura recovered.
What nice eyes he had, small, but such a dark blue! And now
she looked at the others, they were smiling too. "Cheer up,
we won't bite," their smile seemed to say. How very nice
workmen were! And what a beautiful morning! She mustn't
mention the morning; she must be business-like. The marquee.
  "Well, what about the lily-lawn? Would that do?"
  And she pointed to the lily-lawn with the hand that didn't
hold the bread-and-butter. They turned, they stared in the
direction. A little fat chap thrust out his underlip and the tall
fellow frowned.
  "I don't fancy it," said he. "Not conspicuous enough. You
see, with a thing like a marquee" - and he turned to Laura in his


easy way - "you want to put it somewhere where it'll give you
a bang slap in the eye, if you follow me."
  Laura's upbringing made her wonder for a moment whether
it was quite respectful of a workman to talk to her of bangs
slap in the eye. But she did quite follow him.
  "A corner of the tennis-court," she suggested. "But the
band's going to be in one corner."
  "H'm, going to have a band, are you?" said another of the
workmen. He was pale. He had a haggard look as his dark
eyes scanned the tennis-court. What was he thinking?
"Only a very small band," said Laura gently. Perhaps he
wouldn't mind so much if the band was quite small. But the
<P 239>
tall fellow interrupted.
  "Look here, miss, that's the place. Against those trees.
Over there. That'll do fine."
  Against the karakas. Then the karaka trees would be hidden.
And they were so lovely, with their broad, gleaming leaves,
and their clusters of yellow fruit. They were like trees you
imagined growing on a desert island, proud, solitary, lifting
their leaves and fruits to the sun in a kind of silent splendour.
Must they be hidden by a marquee?
  They must. Already the men had shouldered their staves
and were making for the place. Only the tall fellow was left.
He bent down, pinched a sprig of lavender, put his thumb and
forefinger to his nose and snuffed up the smell. When Laura
saw that gesture she forgot all about the karakas in her wonder
at him caring for things like that - caring for the smell of
lavender. How many men that she knew would have done
such a thing. Oh, how extraordinarily nice workmen were,
she thought. Why couldn't she have workmen for friends rather
than the silly boys she danced with and who came to Sunday night
supper? She would get on much better with men like these.
  It's all the fault, she decided, as the tall fellow drew something
on the back of an envelope, something that was to be looped up
or left to hang, of these absurd class distinctions. Well, for her


part, she didn't feel them. Not a bit, not an atom.... And now
there came the chock-chock of wooden hammers. Someone
whistled, someone sang out, "Are you right there, matey?"
"Matey!" The friendliness of it, the - the - Just to prove
how happy she was, just to show the tall fellow how at home
she felt, and how she despised stupid conventions, Laura took
a big bite of her bread-and-butter as she stared at the little
drawing. She felt just like a work-girl.
  "Laura, Laura, where are you? Telephone, Laura!" a voice
cried from the house.
  "Coming!" Away she skimmed, over the lawn, up the
path, up the steps, across the veranda and into the porch. In
the hall her father and Laurie were brushing their hats ready
to go to the office.
  "I say, Laura," said Laurie very fast, "you might just give a
squiz at my coat before this afternoon. See if it wants pressing."
<P 240>
  "I will," said she. Suddenly she couldn't stop herself. She
ran to Laurie and gave him a small, quick squeeze. "Oh, I do
love parties, don't you?" gasped Laura.
  "Ra-ther," said Laurie's warm, boyish voice, and he squeezed
his sister too and gave her a gentle push. "Dash off to the
telephone, old girl."
  The telephone. "Yes, yes; oh yes. Kitty? Good morning,
dear. Come to lunch? Do, dear. Delighted, of course. It will
only be a very scratch meal - just the sandwich crusts and broken
meringue-shells and what's left over. Yes, isn't it a perfect
morning? Your white? Oh, I certainly should. One moment
 - hold the line. Mother's calling." And Laura sat back.
"What, mother? Can't hear."
  Mrs. Sheridan's voice floated down the stairs. "Tell her to
wear that sweet hat she had on last Sunday."
  "Mother says you're to wear that s_w_e_e_t_ hat you had on last
Sunday. Good. One o'clock. Bye-bye."
  Laura put back the receiver, flung her arms over her head,
took a deep breath, stretched and let them fall. "Huh," she


sighed, and the moment after the sigh she sat up quickly. She
was still, listening. All the doors in the house seemed to be
open. The house was alive with soft, quick steps and running
voices. The green baize door that led to the kitchen regions
swung open and shut with a muffled thud. And now there came
a long, chuckling absurd sound. It was the heavy piano being
moved on its stiff castors. But the air! If you stopped to
notice, was the air always like this? Little faint winds were
playing chase in at the tops of the windows, out at the doors.
And there were two tiny spots of sun, one on the inkpot, one
on a silver photograph frame, playing too. Darling little spots.
Especially the one on the inkpot lid. It was quite warm. A
warm little silver star. She could have kissed it.
  The front door bell pealed and there sounded the rustle of
Sadie's print skirt on the stairs. A man's voice murmured;
Sadie answered, careless, "I'm sure I don't know. Wait. I'll
ask Mrs. Sheridan."
  "What is it, Sadie?" Laura came into the hall.
  "It's the florist, Miss Laura."
  It was, indeed. There, just inside the door, stood a wide,
shallow tray full of pots of pink lilies. No other kind. Nothing
<P 241>
but lilies - canna lilies, big pink flowers, wide open, radiant,
almost frighteningly alive on bright crimson stems.
  "O-oh, Sadie!" said Laura, and the sound was like a little
moan. She crouched down as if to warm herself at that blaze
of lilies; she felt they were in her fingers, on her lips, growing
in her breast.
  "It's some mistake," she said faintly. "Nobody ever ordered
so many. Sadie, go and find mother."
  But at that moment Mrs. Sheridan joined them.
  "It's quite right," she said calmly. "Yes, I ordered them.
Aren't they lovely?" She pressed Laura's arm. "I was passing
the shop yesterday, and I saw them in the window. And I
suddenly thought for once in my life I shall have enough canna
lilies. The garden-party will be a good excuse."


  "But I thought you said you didn't mean to interfere," said
Laura. Sadie had gone. The florist's man was still outside at
his van. She put her arm round her mother's neck and gently,
very gently, she bit her mother's ear.
  "My darling child, you wouldn't like a logical mother, would
you? Don't do that. Here's the man."
  He carried more lilies still, another whole tray.
  "Bank them up, just inside the door, on both sides of the
porch, please," said Mrs. Sheridan. "Don't you agree, Laura?"
  "Oh, I d_o_, mother."
  In the drawing-room Meg, Jose and good little Hans had at
last succeeded in moving the piano.
  "Now, if we put this chesterfield against the wall and move
everything out of the room except the chairs, don't you think?"
  "Quite."
  "Hans, move these tables into the smoking-room, and bring
a sweeper to take these marks off the carpet and - one moment,
Hans - " Jose loved giving orders to the servants and they
loved obeying her. She always made them feel they were
taking part in some drama. "Tell mother and Miss Laura to
come here at once."
  "Very good, Miss Jose."
  She turned to Meg. "I want to hear what the piano sounds
like, just in case I'm asked to sing this afternoon. Let's try over
'This Life is Weary."'
<P 242>
  P_o_m_! Ta-ta-ta T_e_e_-ta! The piano burst out so passionately
that Jose's face changed. She clasped her hands. She looked
mournfully and enigmatically at her mother and Laura as they
came in.
This Life is W_e_e_-ary,
A Tear - a Sigh.
A Love that C_h_a_n_-ges,
 This Life is W_e_e_-ary,
A Tear - a Sigh.
A Love that C_h_a_n_-ges,
And then...Good-bye!


But at the word "Good-bye," and although the piano sounded
more desperate than ever, her face broke into a brilliant, dreadfully
unsympathetic smile.
  "Aren't I in good voice, mummy?" she beamed.
This Life is W_e_e_-ary,
Hope comes to Die.
A Dream - a W_a_-kening.
  But now Sadie interrupted them. "What is it, Sadie?"
  "If you please, m'm, cook says have you got the flags for
the sandwiches?"
  "The flags for the sandwiches, Sadie?" echoed Mrs. Sheridan
dreamily. And the children knew by her face that she hadn't
got them. "Let me see." And she said to Sadie firmly, "Tell
cook, I'll let her have them in ten minutes."
  Sadie went.
  "Now, Laura," said her mother quickly, "come with me into
the smoking-room. I've got the names somewhere on the back
of an envelope. You'll have to write them out for me. Meg,
go upstairs this minute and take that wet thing off your head.
Jose, run and finish dressing this instant. Do you hear me,
children, or shall I have to tell your father when he comes home
to-night? And - and Jose, pacify cook if you do go into the
kitchen, will you? I'm terrified of her this morning."
  The envelope was found at last behind the dining-room clock,
though how it had got there Mrs. Sheridan could not imagine.
  "One of you children must have stolen it out of my bag,
because I remember vividly - cream-cheese and lemon-curd.
Have you done that?"
  "Yes."
  "Egg and - " Mrs. Sheridan held the envelope away from
her. "It looks like mice. It can't be mice, can it?"
  "Olive, pet," said Laura, looking over her shoulder.
  "Yes, of course, olive. What a horrible combination it
sounds. Egg and olive."


  They were finished at last, and Laura took them off to the
kitchen. She found Jose there pacifying the cook, who did
not look at all terrifying.
  "I have never seen such exquisite sandwiches," said Jose's
rapturous voice. "How many kinds did you say there were,
cook? Fifteen?"
  "Fifteen, Miss Jose."
  "Well, cook, I congratulate you."
  Cook swept up crusts with the long sandwich knife, and
smiled broadly.
  "Godber's has come," announced Sadie, issuing out of the
pantry. She had seen the man pass the window.
  That meant the cream puffs had come. Godber's were
famous for their cream puffs. Nobody ever thought of making
them at home.
  "Bring them in and put them on the table, my girl," ordered
cook.
  Sadie brought them in and went back to the door. Of course
Laura and Jose were far too grown-up to really care about such
things. All the same, they couldn't help agreeing that the puffs
looked very attractive. Very. Cook began arranging them,
shaking off the extra icing sugar.
  "Don't they carry one back to all one's parties?" said Laura.
  "I suppose they do," said practical Jose, who never liked to
be carried back. "They look beautifully light and feathery, I
must say."
  "Have one each, my dears," said cook in her comfortable
voice. "Yer ma won't know."
  Oh, impossible. Fancy cream puffs so soon after breakfast.
The very idea made one shudder. All the same, two minutes
later Jose and Laura were licking their fingers with that absorbed
inward look that only comes from whipped cream.
<P 244>
  "Let's go into the garden, out by the back way," suggested
Laura. "I want to see how the men are getting on with the
marquee. They're such awfully nice men."


  But the back door was blocked by cook, Sadie, Godber's man
and Hans.
  Something had happened.
  "Tuk-tuk-tuk," clucked cook like an agitated hen. Sadie
had her hand clapped to her cheek as though she had toothache.
Han's face was screwed up in the effort to understand. Only
Godber's man seemed to be enjoying himself; it was his story.
  "What's the matter? What's happened?"
  "There's been a horrible accident," said cook. "A man
killed."
  "A man killed! Where? How? When?"
  But Godber's man wasn't going to have his story snatched
from under his very nose.
  "Know those little cottages just below here, miss?" Know
them? Of course she knew them. "Well, there's a young
chap living there, name of Scott, a carter. His horse shied at a
traction-engine, corner of Hawke Street this morning, and he
was thrown out on the back of his head. Killed."
  "Dead!" Laura stared at Godber's man.
  "Dead when they picked him up," said Godber's man with
relish. "They were taking the body home as I come up
here." And he said to the cook, "He's left a wife and five
little ones."
  "Jose, come here." Laura caught hold of her sister's sleeve
and dragged her through the kitchen to the other side of the
green baize door. There she paused and leaned against it.
"Jose!" she said, horrified, "however are we going to stop
everything.?"
  "Stop everything, Laura!" cried Jose in astonishment
"What do you mean?"
  "Stop the garden-party, of course." Why did Jose pretend?
  But Jose was still more amazed. "Stop the garden-party?
My dear Laura, don't be so absurd. Of course we can't do
anything of the kind. Nobody expects us to. Don't be so
extravagant."


  "But we can't possibly have a garden-party with a man dead
just outside the front gate."
  That really was extravagant, for the little cottages were in a
lane to
<P 245>
themselves at the very bottom of a steep rise that led
up to the house. A broad road ran between. True, they were
far too near. They were the greatest possible eyesore and they
had no right to be in the neighbourhood at all. They were
little mean dwellings painted a chocolate brown. In the garden
patches there was nothing but cabbage stalks, sick hens and
tomato cans. The very smoke coming out of their chimneys
was poverty-stricken. Little rags and shreds of smoke, so unlike
the great silvery plumes that uncurled from the Sheridan's
chimneys. Washerwomen lived in the lane and sweeps and a
cobbler and a man whose house-front was studded all over
with minute bird-cages. Children swarmed. When the
Sheridans were little they were forbidden to set foot there
because of the revolting language and of what they might catch.
But since they were grown up Laura and Laurie on their prowls
sometimes walked through. It was disgusting and sordid.
They came out with a shudder. But still one must go everywhere;
one must see everything. So through they went.
  "And just think of what the band would sound like to that
poor woman," said Laura.
  "Oh, Laura!" Jose began to be seriously annoyed. "If
you're going to stop a band playing every time someone has an
accident, you'll lead a very strenuous life. I'm every bit as
sorry about it as you. I feel just as sympathetic." Her eyes
hardened. She looked at her sister just as she used to when
they were little and fighting together. "You won't bring a
drunken workman back to life by being sentimental," she
said softly.
  "Drunk! Who said he was drunk?" Laura turned furiously
on Jose, She said just as they had used to say on those occasions,
"I'm going straight up to tell mother."
  "Do, dear," cooed Jose.


  "Mother, can I come into your room?" Laura turned the
big glass door-knob.
  "Of course, child. Why, what's the matter? What's given
you such a colour?" And Mrs. Sheridan turned round from
her dressing-table. She was trying on a new hat.
  "Mother, a man's been killed," began Laura.
  "N_o_t_ in the garden?" interrupted her mother.
<P 246>
  "No, no!"
  "Oh, what a fright you gave me!" Mrs. Sheridan sighed
with relief and took off the big hat and held it on her knees.
  "But listen, mother," said Laura. Breathless, half choking,
she told the dreadful story. "Of course, we can't have our
party, can we?" she pleaded. "The band and everybody
arriving. They'd hear us, mother; they're nearly neighbours!"
  To Laura's astonishment her mother behaved just like Jose;
it was harder to bear because she seemed amused. She refused
to take Laura seriously.
  "But, my dear child, use your common sense. It's only by
accident we've heard of it. If someone had died there normally
 - and I can't understand how they keep alive in those poky
little holes - we should still be having our party, shouldn't we?"
  Laura had to say "yes" to that, but she felt it was all wrong.
She sat down on her mother's sofa and pinched the cushion frill.
  "Mother, isn't it really terribly heartless of us?" she asked.
  "Darling!" Mrs. Sheridan got up and came over to her,
carrying the hat. Before Laura could stop her she had popped
it on. "My child!" said her mother, "the hat is yours. It's
made for you. It's much too young for me. I have never seen
you look such a picture. Look at yourself!" And she held up
her hand-mirror.
  "But, mother," Laura began again. She couldn't look at
herself; she turned aside.
  This time Mrs. Sheridan lost patience just as Jose had done.
  "You are being very absurd, Laura," she said coldly. "People
like that don't expect sacrifices from us. And it's not very


sympathetic to spoil everybody's enjoyment as you're doing
now."
  "I don't understand," said Laura, and she walked quickly
out of the room into her own bedroom. There, quite by chance,
the first thing she saw was this charming girl in the mirror, in
her black hat trimmed with gold daisies and a long black velvet
ribbon. Never had she imagined she could look like that. Is
mother right? she thought. And now she hoped her mother
was right. Am I being extravagant? Perhaps it was extravagant.
Just for a moment she had another glimpse of that poor
woman and those little children and the body being carried
into the house. But it all seemed blurred, unreal, like a picture
<P 247>
in the newspaper. I'll remember it again after the party's over,
she decided. And somehow that seemed quite the best plan...
  Lunch was over by half-past one. By half-past two they
were all ready for the fray. The green-coated band had arrived
and was established in a corner of the tennis-court.
  "My dear!" trilled Kitty Maitland, "aren't they too like frogs
for words? You ought to have arranged them round the pond
with the conductor in the middle on a leaf."
  Laurie arrived and hailed them on his way to dress. At the
sight of him Laura remembered the accident again. She wanted
to tell him. If Laurie agreed with the others, then it was bound
to be all right. And she followed him into the hall.
  "Laurie!"
  "Hallo!" He was half-way upstairs, but when he turned
round and saw Laura he suddenly puffed out his cheeks and
goggled his eyes at her. "My word, Laura! You do look
stunning," said Laurie. "What an absolutely topping hat."'
  Laura said faintly "Is it?" and smiled up at Laurie and didn't
tell him after all.
  Soon after that people began coming in streams. The band
struck up; the hired waiters ran from the house to the marquee.
Wherever you looked there were couples strolling, bending to
the flowers, greeting, moving on over the lawn. They were like


bright birds that had alighted in the Sheridans' garden for this
one afternoon, on their way to - where? Ah, what happiness
it is to be with people who all are happy, to press hands, press
cheeks, smile into eyes.
  "Darling Laura, how well you look!"
  "What a becoming hat, child!"
  "Laura, you look quite Spanish. I've never seen you look
so striking."
  And Laura, glowing, answered softly, "Have you had tea?
Won't you have an ice? The passion-fruit ices really are rather
special." She ran to her father and begged him: "Daddy
darling, can't the band have something to drink?"
  And the perfect afternoon slowly ripened, slowly faded,
slowly its petals closed.
<P 248>
  "Never a more delightful garden-party..." "The greatest
success..." "Quite the most..."
  Laura helped her mother with the good-byes. They stood
side by side in the porch till it was all over.
  "All over, all over, thank heavens," said Mrs. Sheridan.
"Round up the others, Laura. Lets' go and have some fresh
coffee. I'm exhausted. Yes, it's been very successful. But
oh, these parties, these parties! Why will you children insist
on giving parties!" And they all of them sat down in the
deserted marquee.
  "Have a sandwich, daddy dear. I wrote the flag."
  "Thanks." Mr. Sheridan took a bite and the sandwich was
gone. He took another. "I suppose you didn't hear of a
beastly accident that happened to-day?" he said.
  "My dear',' said Mrs. Sheridan, holding up her hand, "we
did. It nearly ruined the party. Laura insisted we should put
it off."
  "Oh, mother!" Laura didn't want to be teased about it.
  "It was a horrible affair all the same," said Mr. Sheridan.
"The chap was married too. Lived just below in the lane, and
leaves a wife and half a dozen kiddies, so they say."


  An awkward little silence fell. Mrs. Sheridan fidgeted with
her cup. Really, it was very tactless of father...
  Suddenly she looked up. There on the table were all those
sandwiches, cakes, puffs, all uneaten, all going to be wasted.
She had one of her brilliant ideas.
  "I know," she said. "Let's make up a basket. Let's send
that poor creature some of this perfectly good food. At any
rate, it will be the greatest treat for the children. Don't you
agree? And she's sure to have neighbours calling in and so on.
What a point to have it all ready prepared. Laura!" She
jumped up. "Get me the big basket out of the stair cupboard."
,
  "But, mother, do you really think it's a good idea?" said
Laura.
  Again, how curious, she seemed to be different from them
all. To take scraps from their party. Would the poor woman
really like that?
  "Of course! What's the matter with you to-day? An
hour or two ago you were insisting on us being sympathetic."
,
  Oh well! Laura ran for the basket. It was filled, it was
now heaped by her mother.
<P 249>
  "Take it yourself, darling," said she. "Run down just as
you are. No, wait, take the arum lilies too. People of that
class are so impressed by arum lilies.
   "The stems will ruin her lace frock," said practical Jose.
  So they would. Just in time. "Only the basket, then. And,
Laura!" - her mother followed her out of the marquee - "don't
on any account - "
  "What, mother?"
  No, better not put such ideas into the child's head! "Nothing!
Run along."
  It was just growing dusky as Laura shut their garden gates.
A big dog ran by like a shadow. The road gleamed white,
and down below in the hollow the little cottages were in deep


shade. How quiet it seemed after the afternoon. Here she
was going down the hill to somewhere where a man lay dead,
and she couldn't realise it. Why couldn't she? She stopped a
minute. And it seemed to her that kisses, voices, tinkling spoons,
laughter, the smell of crushed grass were somehow inside her.
She had no room for anything else. How strange! She looked
up at the pale sky, and all she thought was, "Yes, it was the
most successful party."
  Now the broad road was crossed. The lane began, smoky
and dark. Women in shawls and men's tweed caps hurried by.
Men hung over the palings; the children played in the doorways.
A low hum came from the mean little cottages. In some of
them there was a flicker of light, and a shadow, crab-like, moved
across the window. Laura bent her head and hurried on. She
wished now that she had put on a coat. How her frock shone!
And the big hat with the velvet streamer - if only it was another
hat! Were the people looking at her? They must be. It was
a mistake to have come; she knew all along it was a mistake.
Should she go back even now?
  No, too late. This was the house. It must be. A dark knot
of people stood outside. Beside the gate an old, old woman
with a crutch sat in a chair, watching. She had her feet on a
newspaper. The voices stopped as Laura drew near. The
group parted. It was as though she was expected, as though
they had know she was coming here.
  Laura was terribly nervous. Tossing the velvet ribbon over
<P 250>
her shoulder, she said to a woman standing by, "Is this Mrs.
Scott's house?" and the woman, smiling queerly, said, "It is,
my lass."
  Oh, to be away from this." She actually said, "Help me,
God," as she walked up the tiny path and knocked. To be
away from those staring eyes, or to be covered up in anything,
one of those women's shawls even. I'll just leave the
basket and go, she decided. I shan't even wait for it to be
emptied.


  Then the door opened. A little woman in black showed in
the gloom.
  Laura said, "Are you Mrs.Scott?" But to her horror the
woman answered, "Walk in, please, miss," and she was shut
in the passage.
  "No," said Laura, "I don't want to come in. I only want to
leave this basket. Mother sent - "
  The little woman in the gloomy passage seemed not to have
heard her. "Step this way, please, miss," she said in an oily
voce, and Laura followed her.
  She found herself in a wretched little low kitchen, lighted
by a smoky lamp. There was a woman sitting before the
fire.
  "Em," said the little creature who had let her in. "Em!
It's a young lady." She turned to Laura. She said meaningly,
"I'm 'er sister, miss. You'll excuse 'er, won't you?"
  "Oh, but of course!" said Laura. "Please, please don't
disturb her. I - I only want to leave - "
  But at that moment the woman at the fire turned round. Her
face, puffed up, red, with swollen eyes and swollen lips, looked
terrible. She seemed as though she couldn't understand why
Laura was there. What did it mean? Why was this stranger
standing in the kitchen with a basket? What was it all about?
And the poor face puckered up again.
  "All right, my dear," said the other. "I'll thenk the young
lady."
  And again she began, "You'll excuse her, miss, I'm sure,"
and her face, swollen too, tried an oily smile.
  Laura only wanted to get out, to get away. She was
back in the passage. The door opened. She walked
straight through into the bedroom, where the dead man was
lying.
  "You'd like a look at 'im, wouldn't you?" said Em's sister,
and she brushed past Laura over to the bed. "Don't be afraid,
<P 251>
my lass" - and now her voice sounded fond and sly, and fondly


she drew down the sheet - "'e looks a picture. There's nothing
to show. Come along, my dear."
  Laura came.
  There lay a young man, fast asleep - sleeping so soundly, so
deeply, that he was far, far away from them both. Oh, so
remote, so peaceful. He was dreaming. Never wake him up
again. His head was sunk in the pillow, his eyes were closed;
they were blind under the closed eyelids. He was given up to
his dream. What did garden-parties and baskets and lace frocks
matter to him? He was far from all those things. He was
wonderful, beautiful. While they were laughing and while the
band was playing, this marvel had come to the lane. Happy...
happy... All is well, said that sleeping face. This is just as it
should be. I am content.
  But all the same you had to cry, and she couldn't go out of
the room without saying something to him. Laura gave a loud
childish sob.
  "Forgive my hat," she said.
  And this time she didn't wait for Em's sister. She found her
way out of the door, down the path past all those dark people.
At the corner of the lane she met Laurie.
  He stepped out of the shadow. "Is that you, Laura?"
  "Yes."
  "Mother was getting anxious. Was it all right?"
  "Yes, quite, Oh, Laurie!" She took his arm, she pressed up
against him.
  "I say, you're not crying, are you?" asked her brother.
  Laura shook her head. She was.
 Laurie put his arm round her shoulder. "Don't cry," he
said in his warm, loving voice. "Was it awful?"
  "No," sobbed Laura. "It was simply marvellous. But,
Laurie - "She stopped, she looked at her brother. "Isn't
life," she stammered, "isn't life - " But what life was she
couldn't explain. No matter. He quite understood.
  "I_s_n_'_t_ it, darling?" said Laurie.


<T Life of Ma Parker><P 282>
  When the literary gentleman, whose flat old Ma
Parker cleaned every Tuesday, opened the door to
her that morning, he asked after her grandson. Ma Parker stood
on the doormat inside the dark little hall, and she stretched out
her hand to help her gentleman shut the door before she replied.
"We buried 'im yesterday, sir," she said quietly.
  "Oh, dear me! I'm sorry to hear that," said the literary
gentleman in a shocked tone. He was in the middle of his
breakfast. He wore a very shabby dressing-gown and carried
a crumpled newspaper in one hand. But he felt awkward. He
could hardly go back to the warm sitting-room without saying
something - something more. Then because these people set
such store by funerals he said kindly, "I hope the funeral went
off all right."
  "Beg parding, sir?" said old Ma Parker huskily.


  Poor old bird! She did look dashed. "I hope the funeral
was a - a - success," said he. Ma Parker gave no answer. She
bent her head and hobbled off to the kitchen, clasping the old
fish bag that held her cleaning things and an apron and a pair of
felt shoes. The literary gentleman raised his eyebrows and went
back to his breakfast.
  "Overcome, I suppose," he said aloud, helping himself to the
marmalade.
  Ma Parker drew the two jetty spears out of her toque and hung
it behind the door. She unhooked her worn jacket and hung
that up too. Then she tied her apron and sat down to take off
her boots. To take off her boots or to put them on was an agony
to her, but it had been an agony for years. In fact, she was so
accustomed to the pain that her face was drawn and screwed up
ready for the twinge before
<P 283>
she'd so much as untied the laces.
That over, she sat back with a sigh and softly rubbed her
knees...
  "Gran! Gran!" Her little grandson stood on her lap in his
button boots. He'd just come in from playing in the street.
  "Look what a state you've made your gran's skirt into - you
wicked boy!"
  But he put his arms round her neck and rubbed his cheek
against hers.
  "Gran, gi' us a penny!" he coaxed.
  "Be off with you; Gran ain't got no pennies."
  "Yes, you 'ave."
  "No, I ain't."
  "Yes, you 'ave. Gi' us one!"
  Already she was feeling for the old, squashed, black leather
purse.
  "Well, what'll you give your gran?"
  He gave a shy little laugh and pressed closer. She felt his
eyelid quivering against her cheek. "I ain't got nothing," he
murmured...


       The old woman sprang up, seized the iron kettle off the gas
stove and took it over to the sink. The noise of the water drumming
in the kettle deadened her pain, it seemed. She filled the
pail, too, and the washing-up bowl.
  It would take a whole book to describe the state of that
kitchen. During the week the literary gentleman "did" for
himself. That is to say, he emptied the tea-leaves now and again
into a jam jar set aside for that purpose, and if he ran out of clean
forks he wiped over one or two on the roller towel. Otherwise,
as he explained to his friends, his "system" was quite simple,
and he couldn't understand why people made all this fuss about
housekeeping.
  "You simply dirty everything you've got, get a hag in once
a week to clean up, and the thing's done."
  The result looked like a gigantic dustbin. Even the floor was
littered with toast crusts, envelopes, cigarette ends. But Ma
Parker bore him no grudge. She pitied the poor young gentleman
for having no one to look after him. Out of the smudgy
little window you
<P 284>
could see an immense expanse of sad-looking
sky, and whenever there were clouds they looked very worn,
old clouds, frayed at the edges, with holes in them, or dark stains
like tea.
  While the water was heating, Ma Parker began sweeping the
floor. "Yes," she thought, as the broom knocked, "what with
one thing and another I've had my share, I've had a hard life."
  Even the neighbours said that of her. Many a time, hobbling
home with her fish bag, she heard them, waiting at the corner, or
leaning over the area railings, say among themselves, "She's had
a hard life, has Ma Parker." And it was so true she wasn't in the
least proud of it. It was just as if you were to say she lived in the
basement-back at Number 27. A hard life!...
  At sixteen she'd left Stratford and come up to London as
kitchen-maid. Yes, she was born in Stratford-on-Avon.
Shakespeare, sir? No, people were always arsking her about


him. But she'd never heard his name until she saw it on the
theatres.
  Nothing remained of Stratford except that "sitting in the fireplace
of a evening you could see the stars through the chimley,"
and "Mother always 'ad 'er side of bacon 'anging from the
ceiling." and there was something - a bush, there was - at the
front door, that smelt ever so nice. But the bush was very
vague. She'd only remembered it once or twice in the hospital,
when she'd been taken bad.
  That was a dreadful place - her first place. She was never
allowed out. She never went upstairs except for prayers morning
and evening. It was a fair cellar. And the cook was a cruel
woman. She used to snatch away her letters from home before
she'd read them, and throw them in the range because they
made her dreamy....And the beedles! Would you believe it?
 - until she came to London she'd never seen a black beedle.
Here Ma always gave a little laugh, as though - not to have
seen a black beedle! Well! It was as if to say you'd never
seen your own feet.
  When that family as sold up she went as "help" to a doctor's
house, and after two years there, on the run from morning till
night, she married her husband. He was a baker.
  "A baker, Mrs. Parker!" the literary gentleman would say.
For occasionally he laid aside his tomes and lent an ear, at least,
<P 285>
to this product called Life. "It must be rather nice to be married
to a baker!"
  Mrs. Parker didn't look so sure.
  "Such a clean trade," said the gentleman.
  Mrs. Parker didn't look convinced.
  "And didn't you like handing the new loaves to the
customers?"
  "Well, sir," said Mrs. Parker, "I wasn't in the shop above
a great deal. We had thirteen little ones and buried seven of
them. If it wasn't the 'ospital it was the infirmary, you might
say."


  "You might, i_n_d_e_e_d_, Mrs. Parker!" said the gentleman,
shuddering, and taking up his pen again.
  Yes, seven had gone, and while the six were still small her
husband was taken ill with consumption. It was flour on the
lungs, the doctor told her at the time...Her husband sat up
in bed with his shirt pulled over his head, and the doctor's
finger drew a circle on his back.
  "Now, if we were to cut him open h_e_r_e_, Mrs. Parker," said
the doctor, "you'd find his lungs chock-a-block with white
powder. Breathe, my good fellow!" And Mrs. Parker never
knew for certain whether she saw or whether she fancied she
saw a great fan of white dust come out of her poor dear
husband's lips...
  But the struggle she'd had to bring up those six little children
and keep herself to herself. Terrible it had been! Then, just
when they were old enough to go to school her husband's sister
came to stop with them to help things along, and she hadn't
been there more than two months when she fell down a flight
of steps and hurt her spine. And for five years Ma Parker had
another baby - and such a one for crying! - to look after.
Then young Maudie went wrong and took her sister Alice with
her; the two boys emigrimated, and young Jim went to India
with the army, and Ethel, the youngest, married a good-for-nothing
little waiter who died of ulcers the year little Lennie
was born. And now little Lennie - my grandson...
  The piles of dirty cups, dirty dishes, were washed and dried.
The ink-black knives were cleaned with a piece of potato and
finished off with a piece of cork. The table was scrubbed,
and the dresser and the sink that had sardine tails swimming
in it...
  He'd never been a strong child - never from the first. He'd
been one of those fair babies that everyone took for a girl.
<P 286>
Silvery fair curls he had, blue eyes, and a little freckle like a
diamond on one side of his nose. The trouble she and Ethel
had had to rear that child! The things out of the newspapers


they tried him with! Every Sunday morning Ethel would read
aloud while Ma Parker did her washing.
  "Dear Sir, - Just a line to let you know my little Myrtil
was laid out for dead...After four bottils..gained 8 lbs.
in 9 weeks, a_n_d_ i_s_ s_t_i_l_l_ p_u_t_t_i_n_g_ i_t_ o_n_."
  And then the egg-cup of ink would came off the dresser and
the letter would be written, and Ma would buy a postal order
on her way to work next morning. But it was no use. Nothing
made little Lennie put it on. Taking him to the cemetery, even,
never gave him a colour; a nice shake-up in the bus never
improved his appetite.
  But he was gran's boy from the first...
  "Whose boy are you?" said old Ma Parker, straightening
up from the stove and going over to the smudgy window. And
a little voice, so warm, so close, it half stifled her - it seemed to
be in her breast under her heart - laughed out, and said, "I'm
gran's boy!"
  At that moment there was a sound of steps, and the literary
gentleman appeared, dressed for walking.
  "Oh, Mrs. Parker, I'm going out."
  "Very good, sir."
  "And you'll find your half-crown in the tray of the inkstand."
  "Thank you, sir."
  "Oh, by the way, Mrs. Parker," said the literary gentleman
quickly, "you didn't throw away any cocoa last time you were
here - did you?"
  "No, sir."
  "V_e_r_y_ strange. I could have sworn I left a teaspoonful of
cocoa in the tin." He broke off. He said softly and firmly,
"You'll always tell me when you throw things away - won't
you, Mrs. Parker?" And he walked off very well pleased with
himself, convinced, in fact, he'd shown Mrs. Parker that under
his apparent carelessness he was as vigilant as a woman.


  The door banged. She took her brushes and cloths into the
<P 287>
bedroom. But when she began to make the bed, smoothing,
tucking, patting, the thought of little Lennie was unbearable.
Why did he have to suffer so? That's what she couldn't understand.
Why should a little angel child have to arsk for his
breath and fight for it? There was no sense in making a child
suffer like that.
   ...From Lennie's little box of a chest there came a sound as
though something was boiling. There was a great lump of
something bubbling in his chest that he couldn't get rid of.
When he coughed, the sweat sprang out of his head; his eyes
bulged, his hands waved, and the great lump bubbled as a potato
knocks in a saucepan. But what was more awful than all was
when he didn't cough he sat against the pillow and never spoke
or answered, or even made as if he heard. Only he looked
offended.
  "It's not your poor old gran's doing it, my lovey," said old
Ma Parker, patting back the damp hair from his scarlet ears.
But Lennie moved his head and edged away. Dreadfully
offended with her he looked - and solemn. He bent his head
and looked at her sideways as though he couldn't have believed
it of his gran.
  But at the last...Ma Parker threw the counterpane over the
bed. No, she simply couldn't think about it. It was too much
 - she'd had too much in her life to bear. She'd borne it up till
now, she'd kept herself to herself, and never once had she been
seen to cry. Never by a living soul. Not even her own children
had seen Ma break down. She'd kept a proud face always.
But now! Lennie gone - what had she? She had nothing.
He was all she'd got from life, and now he was took too. Why
must it all have happened to me? she wondered. "What have
I done?" said old Ma Parker. "What have I done?"
  As she said those words she suddenly let fall her brush. She
found herself in the kitchen. Her misery was so terrible that
she pinned on her hat, put on her jacket and walked out of the


flat like a person in a dream. She did not know what she was
doing. She was like a person so dazed by the horror of what
has happened that he walks away - anywhere, as though by
walking away he could escape....
  It was cold in the street. There was a wind like ice. People
went flitting by, very fast; the men walked like scissors; the
women trod like cats. And nobody knew - nobody cared.
Even if she broke down,
<P 288>
if at last, after all these years, she
were to cry, she'd find herself in the lock-up as like as
not.
  But at the thought of crying it was as though little Lennie
leapt in his gran's arms. Ah, that's what she wants to do, my
dove. Gran wants to cry. If she could only cry now, cry for
a long time, over everything, beginning with her first place and
the cruel cook, going on to the doctor's, and then the seven little
ones, death of her husband, the children's leaving her, and all
the years of misery that led up to Lennie. But to have a proper
cry over all these things would take a long time. All the same,
the time for it had come. She must do it. She couldn't put it
off any longer; she couldn't wait any more....Where could
she go?
  "She's had a hard life, has Ma Parker." Yes, a hard life,
indeed! Her chin began to tremble; there was no time to lose.
But where? Where?
  She couldn't go home; Ethel was there. It would frighten
Ethel out of her life. She couldn't sit on a bench anywhere;
people would come arsking her questions. She couldn't
possibly go back to the gentleman's flat; she had no right to
cry in strangers' houses. If she sat on some steps a policeman
would speak to her.
  Oh, wasn't there anywhere where she could hide and keep
herself to herself and stay as long as she liked, not disturbing
anybody, and nobody worrying her? Wasn't there anywhere
in  the world where she could have her cry out - at last?


Ma Parker stood, looking up and down.  The icy wind
blew out her apron into a balloon. And now it began to rain.
There was nowhere.



<T Miss Brill><P 309>
  Although it was so brilliantly fine - the blue sky
powdered with gold and the great spots of light like
white wine splashed over the Jardins Publiques - Miss Brill was
glad that she had decided on her fur.  The air was motionless,


but when you opened your mouth there was just a faint chill,
like a chill from a glass of iced water before you sip, and now
and again a leaf came drifting - from nowhere, from the sky.
Miss Brill put up her hand and touched her fur.  Dear little
thing! It was nice to feel it again. She had taken it out of its
box that afternoon, shaken out the moth-powder, given it a
good brush, and rubbed the life back into the dim little eyes.
"What has been happening to me?" said the sad little eyes.
Oh, how sweet it was to see them snap at her again from the
red eiderdown!....But the nose, which was of some black
composition, wasn't at all firm.   It must have had a knock,
somehow.  Never mind - a little dab of black sealing-wax when
the time came - when it was absolutely necessary.... Little
rogue! Yes, she really felt like that about it.   Little rogue
biting its tail just by her left ear. She could have taken it off
and laid it on her lap and stroked it. She felt a tingling in her
hands and arms, but that came from walking, she supposed.
And when she breathed, something light and sad - no, not sad,
exactly - something gentle seemed to move in her bosom.
  There were a number of people out this afternoon, far more
than last Sunday. And the band sounded louder and gayer.
That was because the Season had begun. For although the
band played all the year round on Sundays, out of season it
was never the same. It was like someone playing with only
the family to listen; it didn't care how it played if there weren't
any strangers present. Wasn't the
<P 310>
conductor wearing a new
coat, too? She was sure it was new. He scraped with his
foot and flapped his arms like a rooster about to crow, and the
bandsmen sitting in the green rotunda blew out their cheeks
and glared at the music. Now there came a little "flutey" bit -
very pretty! - a little chain of bright drops. She was sure it
would be repeated. It was; she lifted her head and smiled.
  Only two people shared her "special" seat: a fine old man
in a velvet coat, his hands clasped over a huge carved walking-stick,
and a big old woman, sitting upright, with a roll of


knitting on her embroidered apron. They did not speak. This
was disappointing, for Miss Brill always looked forward to the
conversation. She had become really quite expert, she thought,
at listening as though she didn't listen, at sitting in other people's
lives just for a minute while they talked round her.
  She glanced, sideways, at the old couple. Perhaps they
would go soon. Last Sunday, too, hadn't been as interesting
as usual. An Englishman and his wife, he wearing a dreadful
Panama hat and she button boots. And she'd gone on the
whole time about how she ought to wear spectacles; she knew
she needed them; but that it was no good getting any; they'd
be sure to break and they'd never keep on. And he'd been so
patient. He'd suggested everything - gold rims, the kind that
curved round your ears, little pads inside the bridge. No,
nothing would please her. "They'll always be sliding down
my nose!" Miss Brill had wanted to shake her.
  The old people sat on the bench, still as statues. Never
mind, there was always the crowd to watch. To and fro, in
front of the flower-beds and the band rotunda, the couples
and groups paraded, stopped to talk, to greet, to buy a handful
of flowers from the old beggar who had his tray fixed to the
railings. Little children ran among them, swooping and laughing;
little boys with big white silk bows under their chins;
little girls, little French dolls, dressed up in velvet and lace.
And sometimes a tiny staggerer came suddenly rocking into
the open from under the trees, stopped, stared, as suddenly
sat down "flop" until its small high-stepping mother, like a
young hen, rushed scolding to its rescue. Other people sat
on the benches and green chairs, but they were nearly always
the same, Sunday after Sunday, and - Miss Brill had often
noticed - there was something funny about nearly all of them.
<P 311>
They were odd, silent, nearly all old, and from the way they
stared they looked as though they'd just come from dark little
rooms or even - even cupboards!
  Behind the rotunda the slender trees with yellow leaves down


drooping, and through them just a line of sea, and beyond the
blue sky with gold-veined clouds.
  Tum-tum-tum tiddle-um! tiddle-um! tum tiddley-um tum
ta! blew the band.
  Two young girls in red came by and two young soldiers in
blue met them, and they laughed and paired and went off arm
in arm. Two peasant women with funny straw hats passed,
gravely, leading beautiful smoke-coloured donkeys. A cold,
pale nun hurried by. A beautiful woman came along and
dropped her bunch of violets, and a little boy ran after to hand
them to her, and she took them and threw them away as if
they'd been poisoned. Dear me! Miss Brill didn't know
whether to admire that or not! And now an ermine toque and
a gentleman in grey met just in front of her. He was tall, stiff,
dignified, and she was wearing the ermine toque she'd bought
when her hair was yellow. Now everything, her hair, her face,
even her eyes, was the same colour as the shabby ermine, and
her hand, in its cleaned glove, lifted to dab her lips, was a tiny
yellowish paw. Oh, she was so pleased to see him - delighted!
She rather thought they were going to meet that afternoon.
She described where she'd been - everything, here, there,
along the sea. The day was so charming - didn't he agree?
And wouldn't he, perhaps?...But he shook his head, lighted
a cigarette, slowly breathed a great deep puff into her face and,
even while she was still talking and laughing, flicked the match
away and walked on. The ermine toque was alone; she smiled
more brightly than ever. But even the band seemed to know
what she was feeling and played more sloftly, played tenderly,
and the drum beat "The Brute! The Brute!" over and over.
What would she do? What was going to happen now? But
as Miss Brill wondered, the ermine toque turned, raised her
hand as though she'd seen someone else, much nicer, just over
there, and pattered away. And the band changed again and
played more quickly, more gaily than ever, and the old couple
on Miss Brill's seat got up and marched away, and such a funny


<P 312>
old man with long whiskers hobbled along in time to the music
and was nearly knocked over by four girls walking abreast.
  Oh, how fascinating it was! How she enjoyed it! How she
loved sitting here, watching it all! It was like a play. It was
exactly like a play. Who could believe the sky at the back
wasn't painted? But it wasn't till a little brown dog trotted on
solemnly and then slowly trotted off, like a little "theatre" dog,
a little dog that had been drugged, that Miss Brill discovered
what it was that made it so exciting. They were all on the stage.
They weren't only the audience, not only looking on; they
were acting. Even she had a part and came every Sunday. No
doubt somebody would have noticed if she hadn't been there;
she was part of the performance, after all. How strange she'd
never thought of it like that before! And yet it explained why
she made such a point of starting from home at just the same
time each week - so as not to be late for the performance - and
it also explained why she had quite  a queer, shy feeling at telling
her English pupils how she spent her Sunday afternoons. No
wonder! Miss Brill nearly laughed out loud. She was on the
stage. She thought of the old invalid gentleman to whom she
read the newspaper four afternoons a week while he slept in the
garden. She had got quite used to the frail head on the cotton
pillow, the hollowed eyes, the open mouth and the high pinched
nose. If he'd been dead she mightn't have noticed for weeks;
she wouldn't have minded. But suddenly he knew he was
having the paper read to him by an actress! "An actress!"
The old head lifted; two points of light quivered in the old eyes.
"An actress - are ye?" And Miss Brill smoothed the newspaper
as though it were the manuscript of her part and said
gently: "Yes, I have been an actress for a long time."
 The band had been having a rest. Now they started again.
And what they played was warm, sunny, yet there was just a
faint chill - a something, what was it? - not sadness - no, not
sadness - a something that made you want to sing. The tune
lifted, lifted, the light shone; and it seemed to Miss Brill that


in another moment all of them, all  the whole company, would
begin singing. The young ones, the laughing ones who were
moving together, they would begin, and the men's voices, very
resolute and brave, would join them. And then she too, she
too, and the others on the benches - they would come in with
<P 313>
a kind of accompaniment - something low, that scarcely rose
or fell, something so beautiful - moving....And Miss Brill's
eyes filled with tears and she looked smiling at all the other
members of the company. Yes, we understand, we understand,
she thought - though what they understood she didn't know.
  Just at that moment a boy and a girl came and sat down
where the old couple had been. They were beautifully dressed;
they were in love. The hero and heroine, of course, just arrived
from his father's yacht. And still soundlessly singing, still with
that trembling smile, Miss Brill prepared to listen.
  "No, not now," said the girl. "Not here, I can't."
  "But why? Because of that stupid old thing at the end
there?" asked the boy. "Why does she come here at all - who
wants her? Why doesn't she keep her silly old mug at home?"
  "It's her fu-fur which is so funny," giggled the girl. "It's
exactly like a fried whiting."
  "Ah, be off with you!" said the boy in an angry whisper.
Then: "Tell me, ma petite che>re - "
  "No, no here," said the girl. "Not y_e_t_."
  On her way home she usually bought a slice of honey-cake
at the baker's. It was her Sunday treat. Sometimes there was
an almond in her slice, sometimes not. It made a great difference.
If there was an almond it was like carrying home a tiny present
 - a suprise - something that might very well not have been
there. She hurried on the almond Sundays and struck the match
for the kettle in quite a dashing way.
  But to-day she passed the baker's by, climbed the stairs,
went into the little dark room - her room like a cupboard - and


sat down on the red eiderdown. She sat there for a long time.
The box that the fur came out of was on the bed. She unclasped
the necklet quickly; quickly, without looking, laid it inside.
But when she put the lid on she thought she heard something
crying.


<T Bank Holiday><P 000>
  A stout man with a pink face wears dingy white
flannel trousers, a blue coat with a pink handkerchief
showing, and a straw hat much too small for him, perched at
the back of his head. He plays the guitar. A little chap in
white canvas shoes, his face hidden under a felt hat like a broken
wing, breathes into a flute; and a tall thin fellow, with bursting
over-ripe button boots, draws ribbons - long, twisted, streaming
ribbons - of tunes out of a fiddle. They stand, unsmiling,
but not serious, in the broad sunlight opposite the fruit-shop;
the pink spider of a hand beats the guitar, the little squat hand,
with a brass-and-turquoise ring, forces the reluctant flute, and
the fiddler's arm tries to saw the fiddle in two.
  A crowd collects, eating oranges and bananas, tearing off
the skins, dividing, sharing. One young girl has even a basket
of strawberries, but she does not eat them. "Aren't they d_e_a_r_!"
She stares at the tiny pointed fruits as if she were afraid of
them. The Australian soldier laughs. "Here, go on, there's not
more than a mouthful." But he doesn't want her to eat them,
either. He likes to watch her little frightened face, and her
puzzled eyes lifted to his: "Aren't they a p_r_i_c_e_!" He pushes


out his chest and grins. Old fat women in velvet bodices -
old dusty pin-cushions - lean old hags like worn umbrellas
with a quivering bonnet on top; young women, in muslins,
with hats that might have grown on hedges, and high pointed
shoes; men in khaki, sailors, shabby clerks, young Jews in
fine cloth suits with padded shoulders and wide trousers,
"hospital boys" in blue - the sun discovers them - the loud,
bold music holds them together in one big knot for a moment.
The young ones are larking, pushing each other on and off
the pavement, dodging, nudging; the old ones are talking:
"So I said to 'im, if you wants the doctor to yourself, fetch 'im,
says I."
  "An' by the time they was cooked there wasn't so much as
you could put in the palm of me 'and!"
  The only ones who are quiet are the ragged children. They
stand, as close up to the musicians as they can get, their hands
behind their backs, their eyes big. Occasionally a leg hops, an
arm wags. A tiny staggerer, overcome, turns round twice, sits
down solemn, and then gets up again.
  "Ain't it lovely?" whispers a small girl behind her hand.
  And the music breaks into bright pieces, and joins together
again, and again breaks, and is dissolved, and the crowd scatters,
moving slowly up the hill.
  At the corner of the road the stalls begin.
  "Ticklers! Tuppence a tickler! 'Ool'ave a tickler? Tickle
'em up, boys." Little soft brooms on wire handles. They are
eagerly bought by the soldiers.
  "Buy a golliwog! Tuppence a golliwog!"
  "Buy a jumping donkey! All alive-oh!"
  "S_u_-perior chewing-gum. Buy something to do, boys."
  "Buy a rose. Give 'er a rose, boy. Roses, lady?"
  "Fevvers! Fevvers!" They are hard to resist. Lovely,
streaming feathers, emerald green, scarlet, bright blue, canary
yellow. Even the babies wear feathers threaded through their
bonnets.


  And an old woman in a three-cornered paper hat cries as if
it were her final parting advice, the only way of saving yourself
or of bringing him to his senses: "Buy a three-cornered 'at,
my dear, an' put it on!"
  It is a flying day, half sun, half wind. When the sun goes in
a shadow flies over; when it comes out again it is fiery. The
men and women feel it burning their backs, their breasts and
their arms; they feel their bodies expanding, coming alive...
so they make large embracing gestures, lift up their arms,
for nothing, swoop down on a girl, blurt into laughter.
  Lemonade! A whole tank of it stands on a table covered
with a cloth; and lemons like blunted fishes blob in the yellow
water. It looks solid, like jelly, in the thick glasses. Why
can't they drink it without spilling it? Everybody spills it, and
before the glass is handed back the last drops are thrown in a
ring.
  Round the ice-cream cart, with its striped awning and bright
brass cover, the children cluster. Little tongues lick, lick round
the cream trumpets, round the squares. The cover is lifted, the
wooden spoon plunges in; one shuts one's eyes to feel it,
silently scrunching.
  "Let these little birds tell you your future!" She stands
beside the cage, a shrivelled ageless Italian, clasping and unclasping
her dark claws. Her face, a treasure of delicate carving,
is tied in a green-and-gold scarf. And inside their prison the
love-birds flutter towards the papers in the seed-tray.
  "You have great strength of character. You will marry a
red-haired man and have three children. Beware of a blonde
woman. Look out! Look out! A motor-car driven by a fat
chauffeur comes rushing down the hill. Inside there a blonde
woman, pouting, leaning forward - rushing through your life
 - beware! beware!"
  "Ladies and gentlemen, I am an auctioneer by profession,
and if what I tell you is not the truth I am liable to have my
licence taken away from me and a heavy imprisonment." He


holds the licence across his chest; the sweat pours down his
face into his paper collar; his eyes look glazed. When he takes
off his hat there is a deep pucker of angry flesh on his forehead.
Nobody buys a watch.
  Look out again! A huge barouche comes swinging down the
hill with two old, old babies inside. She holds up a lace parasol;
he sucks the knob of his cane, and the fat old bodies roll together
as the cradle rocks, and the steaming horse leaves a trail of
manure as it ambles down the hill.
  Under a tree, Professor Leonard, in cap and gown, stands
beside his banner. He is here "for one day," from the London,
Paris and Brussels Exhibition, to tell your fortune from your
face. And he stands, smiling encouragement, like a clumsy
dentist. When the big men, romping and swearing a moment
before, hand across their sixpence, and stand before him, they
are suddenly serious, dumb, timid, almost blushing as the
Professor's quick hand notches the printed card. They are like
little children caught playing in a forbidden garden by the
owner, stepping from behind a tree.
  The top of the hill is reached. How hot it is! How fine it
is! The public-house is open and the crowd presses in. The
mother sits on the pavement edge with her baby, and the father
brings her out a glass of dark, brownish stuff, and then savagely
elbows his way in again. A reek of beer floats from the public-house
and a loud clatter and rattle of voices.
  The wind has dropped and the sun burns more fiercely than
ever. Outside the two swing-doors there is a thick mass of
children like flies at the mouth of a sweet-jar.
  And up, up the hill come the people, with ticklers and golliwogs
and roses and feathers. Up, up they thrust into the light
and heat, shouting, laughing, squealing, as though they were
being pushed by something, far below, and by the sun, far
ahead of them - drawn up into the full, bright, dazzling radiance
to..what?


<T The Lady's Maid>
  E_l_e_v_e_n_ o_'_c_l_o_c_k_. A_ k_n_o_c_k_ a_t_ t_h_e_ d_o_o_r_.
  ...I hope I haven't disturbed you, madam. You
weren't asleep - were you? But I've just given my lady her
tea, and there was such a nice cup over, I thought, perhaps...
  ...Not at all, madam. I always make a cup of tea last thing.
She drinks it in bed after her prayers to warm her up. I put the
kettle on when she kneels down and I say to it, "Now you
needn't be in too much of a hurry to say y_o_u_r_ prayers." But
it's always boiling before my lady is half through. You see,
madam, we know such a lot of people, and they've all got to
be prayed for - every one. My lady keeps a list of the names in
a little red book. Oh dear! whenever someone new has been
to see us and my lady says afterwards, "Ellen, give me my little
red book," I feel quite wild, I do. "There's another," I think,
"keeping her out of her bed in all weathers." And she won't
have a cushion, you know, madam; she kneels on the hard
carpet. It fidgets me something dreadful to see her, knowing



her as I do. I've tried to cheat her; I've spread out the eiderdown.
But the first time I did it - oh, she gave me such a look
 - holy it was, madam. "Did our Lord have an eiderdown,
Ellen?" she said. But - I was younger at that time - I felt
inclined to say, "No, but our Lord wasn't your age, and He
didn't know what it was to have your lumbago." Wicked -
wasn't it? But she's t_o_o_ good, you know, madam. When I
tucked her up just now and seen - saw her lying back, her
hands outside and her head on the pillow - so pretty - I couldn't
help thinking, "Now you look just like your dear mother when
I laid her out!"
  ...Yes, madam, it was all left to me. Oh, she did look sweet.
I did her hair, soft-like, round her forehead, all in dainty curls.
and just to one side of her neck I put a bunch of most beautiful
purple pansies. Those pansies made a picture of her, madam!
I shall never forget them. I thought to-night, when I looked
at my lady, "Now, if only the pansies was there no one could
tell the difference."
  ...Only the last year, madam. Only after she'd got a little
 - well - feeble as you might say. Of course, she was never
dangerous; she was the sweetest old lady. But how it took her
was - she thought she'd lost something. She couldn't keep
still, she couldn't settle. All day long she'd be up and down,
up and down; you'd meet her everywhere - on the stairs, in
the porch, making for the kitchen. And she'd look up at you,
and she'd say - just like a child, "I've lost it; I've lost it."
"Come along," I'd say, "come along, and I"ll lay out your
patience for you." But she'd catch me by the hand - I was a
favourite of hers - and whisper, "Find it for me, Ellen. Find
it for me." Sad, wasn't it?
  ...No, she never recovered, madam. She had a stroke at
the end. Last words she ever said was - very slow, "Look in
 - the - Look - in - " And she was gone.
  ...No, madam, I can't say I noticed it. Perhaps some girls.
But you see, it's like this, I've got nobody but my lady. My



mother died of consumption when I was four, and I lived with
my grandfather, who kept a hairdresser's shop. I used to spend
all my time in the shop under a table dressing my doll's hair -
copying the assistants, I suppose. They were ever so kind to
me. Used to make me little wigs, all colours, the latest fashions
and all. And there I'd sit all day, quiet as quiet - the customers
never knew. Only now and again I'd take my peep from under
the tablecloth.
  ...But one day I managed to get a pair of scissors and -
would you believe it, madam? - I cut off all my hair; snipped
it all off in bits, like the little monkey I was. Grandfather was
f_u_r_i_o_u_s_! He caught hold of the tongs - I shall never forget it -
grabbed me by the hand and shut my fingers in them. "That'll
teach you!" he said. It was a fearful burn. I've got the mark
of it to-day.
  ...Well, you see, madam, he'd taken such pride in my hair.
He used to sit me up on the counter, before the customers
came, and do it something beautiful - big, soft curls and waved
over the top. I remember the assistants standing round, and
me ever so solemn with the penny grandfather gave me to hold
while it was being done....But he always took the penny back
afterwards. Poor grandfather! Wild, he was, at the fright I'd
made of myself. But he frightened me that time. Do you know
what I did, madam? I ran away. Yes, I did, round the corners,
in and out, I don't know how far I didn't run. Oh, dear, I
must have looked a sight, with my hand rolled up in my pinny
and my hair sticking out. People must have laughed when they
saw me...
  ...No, madam, grandfather never got over it. He couldn't
bear the sight of me after. Couldn't eat his dinner, even, if I
was there. So my aunt took me. She was a cripple, an upholstress.
Tiny! She had to stand on the sofa when she wanted
to cut out the backs. And it was helping her I met my lady....
  ...Not so very, madam. I was thirteen, turned. And I
don't remember ever feeling - well - a child, as you might say.


You see there was my uniform, and one thing and another.
My lady put me in collars and cuffs from the first. Oh yes -
once I did! That was - funny! It was like this. My lady
had her two little neices staying with her - we were at Sheldon
at the time - and there was a fair on the common.
  "Now, Ellen," she said, "I want you to take the two young
ladies for a ride on the donkeys." Off we went; solemn little
loves they were; each had a hand. But when we came to the
donkeys they were too shy to go on. So we stood and watched
instead. Beautiful those donkeys were! They were the first
I'd seen out of a cart - for pleasure, as you might say. They
were a lovely silver-grey, with red saddles and blue bridles
and bells jing-a-jingling on their ears. And quite big girls -
older than me, even - were riding them, ever so gay. Not at
all common. I don't mean, madam, just enjoying themselves.
And I don't know what it was, but the way the little feet went,
and the eyes - so gentle - and the soft ears - made me want to
go on a donkey more than anything in the world!
  ...Of course, I couldn't. I had my young ladies. And what
would I have looked like perched up there in my uniform?
But all the rest of the day it was donkeys - donkeys on the
brain with me. I felt I should have burst if I didn't tell someone;
and who was there to tell? But when I went to bed - I was
sleeping in Mrs. James's bedroom, our cook that was, at the
time - as soon as the light was out, there they were, my
donkeys, jingling along, with their neat little feet and sad eyes.
...Well, madam, would you believe it, I waited for a long time
and pretended to be asleep, and then suddenly I sat up and called
out as loud as I could, "I_ d_o_ w_a_n_t_ t_o_ g_o_ o_n_ a_
d_o_n_k_e_y_. I_ d_o_ w_a_n_t_ a
d_o_n_k_e_y_-r_i_d_e_!" You see, I had to say it, and I thought they
wouldn't laugh at me if they knew I was only dreaming. Awful
 - wasn't it? Just what a silly child would think....
  ...No, madam, never now. Of course, I did think of it at
one time. But it wasn't to be. He had a little flower-shop
just down the road and across from where we was living.



Funny - wasn't it? And me such a one for flowers. We were
having a lot of company at the time and I was in and out of the
shop more often than not, as the saying is. And Harry and I
(his name was Harry) got to quarrelling about how things
ought to be arranged - and that began it. Flowers! you
wouldn't believe it, madam, the flowers he used to bring me.
He'd stop at nothing. It was lilies-of-the-valley more than
once, and I'm not exaggerating! Well, of course, we were
going to be married and live over the shop, and it was all going
to be just so, and I was to have the window to arrange....
Oh, how I've done that window of a Saturday! Not really,
of course, madam, just dreaming, as you might say. I've done
it for Christmas - motto in holly, and all - and I've had my
Easter lilies with a gorgeous star all daffodils in the middle.
I've hung - well, that's enough of that. The day came he was
to call for me to choose the furniture. Shall I ever forget it?
It was a Tuesday. My lady wasn't quite herself that afternoon.
Not that she'd said anything, of course; she never does or will.
But I knew by the way that she kept wrapping herself up and
asking me if it was cold - and her little nose looked...pinched.
I didn't like leaving her; I knew I'd be worrying all the time.
At last I asked her if she'd rather I put it off. "Oh no, Ellen,"
she said, "you mustn't mind about me. You mustn't disappoint
your young man." And so cheerful, you know, madam, never
thinking about herself. It made me feel worse than ever. I
began to wonder...then she dropped her handkerchief and
began to stoop down to pick it up herself - a thing she never
did. "Whatever are you doing!" I cried, running to stop her.
"Well," she said, smiling, you know, madam, "I shall have to
begin to practise." Oh, it was all I could do not to burst out
crying. I went over to the dressing-table and made believe to
rub up the silver, and I couldn't keep myself in, and I asked her
if she'd rather I...didn't get married. "No, Ellen," she said
 - that was her voice, madam, like I'm giving you - "No, Ellen,
not for the w_i_d_e_ w_o_r_l_d_!" But while she said it, madam - I was


looking in her glass; of course, she didn't know I could see
her - she put her little hand on her heart just like her dear
mother used to, and lifted her eyes...Oh. m_a_d_a_m_!
  When Harry came I had his letters all ready, and the ring
and a ducky little brooch he'd given me - a silver bird it was
with a chain in its beak, and on the end of the chain a heart
with a dagger. Quite the thing! I opened the door to him.
I never gave him time for a word. "There you are," I said.
"Take them all back," I said, "it's all over. I'm not going to
marry you," I said, "I can't leave my lady." White! he turned
as white as a woman. I had to slam the door, and there I stood,
all of a tremble, till I knew he had gone. When I opened the
door - believe me or not, madam - that man w_a_s_ gone! I ran
out into the road just as I was, in my apron and my house-shoes,
and there I stayed in the middle of the road...staring.
People must have laughed if they saw me...
  ..Good gracious! - What's that? It's the clock striking!
And here I've been keeping you awake. Oh, madam,
you ought to have stopped me...Can I tuck in your feet?
I always tuck in my lady's feet, every night, just the same. And
she says, "Good night, Ellen. Sleep sound and wake early!"
I don't know what I should do if she didn't say that, now.
  ..Oh dear, I sometimes think...whatever should I do
if anything were to...But, there, thinking's no good to anyone
 - is it, madam? Thinking won't help. Not that I do it often.
And if ever I do I pull myself up sharp, "Now then, Ellen. At
it again - you silly girl! If you can't find anything better to
do than to start thinking...!"


<T The Doll's House<Y 1923><P 337>
  When dear old Mrs. Hay went back to town after
staying with the Burnells she sent the children a
doll's house. It was so big that the carter and Pat carried it
into the courtyard, and there it stayed, propped up on two
wooden boxes beside the feed-room door. No harm could
come to it; it was summer. And perhaps the smell of paint
would have gone off by the time it had to be taken in. For,
really, the smell of paint coming from the doll's house ("Sweet
of old Mrs. Hay, of course; most sweet and generous!") - but
the smell of paint was quite enough to make anyone seriously
ill, in Aunt Beryl's opinion. Even before the sacking was taken
off. And when it was...
  There stood the doll's house, a dark, oily, spinach green,
picked out with bright yellow. Its two solid little chimneys,
glued on to the roof, were painted red and white, and the door,
gleaming with yellow varnish, was like a little slab of toffee.
Four windows, real windows, were divided into panes by a broad
streak of green. There was actually a tiny porch, too, painted
yellow, with big lumps of congealed paint hanging along the edge.
  But perfect, perfect little house! Who could possibly mind
the smell. It was part of the joy, part of the newness.
  "Open it quickly, someone!"
  The hook at the side was stuck fast. Pat prised it open with
his penknife, and the whole house front swung back, and -
there you were, gazing at one and the same moment into the
drawing-room and dining-room, the kitchen and two bedrooms.
That is the way for a house to open! Why don't all houses open
like that? How much more exciting than peering through the
slit of a door into a mean little hall with a hat-stand and two


<P 338>
umbrellas! That is - isn't it? - what you long to know about
a house when you put your hand on the knocker. Perhaps it
is the way God opens houses at the dead of night when He is
taking a quiet turn with an angel....
  "Oh-oh!" The Burnell children sounded as though they
were in despair. It was too marvellous; it was too much for
them. They had never seen anything like it in their lives. All
the rooms were papered. There were pictures on the walls,
painted on the paper, with gold frames complete. Red carpet
covered all the floors except the kitchen; red plush chairs in
the drawing-room, green in the dining-room; tables, beds with
real bedclothes, a cradle, a stove, a dresser with tiny plates and
one big jug. But what Kezia liked more than anything, what
she liked frightfully, was the lamp. It stood in the middle of
the dining-room table, an exquisite little amber lamp with a
white globe. It was filled all ready for lighting, though,
of course, you couldn't light it. But there was something inside
that looked like oil and moved when you shook it.
  The father and mother dolls, who sprawled very stiff as
though they had fainted in the drawing-room, and their two
little children asleep upstairs, were really too big for the doll's
house. They didn't look as though they belonged. But the
lamp was perfect. It seemed to smile at Kezia, to say, "I live
here." The lamp was real.
  The Burnell children could hardly walk to school fast enough
the next morning. They burned to tell everybody, to describe,
to - well - to boast about their doll's house before the schoolbell
rang.
  "I'm to tell," said Isabel, "because I'm the eldest. And you
two can join in after. But I'm to tell first."
  There was nothing to answer, Isabel was bossy, but she was
always right, and Lottie and Kezia knew too well the powers
that went with being eldest. They brushed through the thick
buttercups at the road edge and said nothing.


  "And I'm to choose who's to come and see it first. Mother
said I might."
  For it had been arranged that while the doll's house stood in
the courtyard they might ask the girls at school, two at a time,
to come and look. Not to stay to tea, of course, or to come
traipsing through the house. But just to stand quietly in the
<P 339>
courtyard while Isabel pointed out the beauties, and Lottie and
Kezia looked pleased....
  But hurry as they might, by the time they had reached the
tarred palings of the boys' playground the bell had begun to
jangle. They only just had time to whip off their hats and fall
into line before the roll was called. Never mind. Isabel tried
to make up for it by looking very important and mysterious and
by whispering behind her hand to the girls near her, "Got
something to tell you at playtime."
  Playtime came and Isabel was surrounded. The girls of her
class nearly fought to put their arms round her, to walk away
with her, to beam flatteringly, to be her special friend. She held
quite a court under the huge pine trees at the side of the playground.
Nudging, giggling together, the little girls pressed
up close. And the only two who stayed outside the ring were
the two who were always outside, the little Kelveys. They
knew better than to come anywhere near the Burnells.
  For the fact was, the school the Burnell children went to was
not at all the kind of place their parents would have chosen if
there had been any choice. But there was none. It was the
only school for miles. And the consequence was all the children
of the neighbourhood, the Judge's little girls, the doctor's
daughters, the store-keeper's children, the milkman's, were
forced together. Not to speak of there being an equal
number of rude, rough little boys as well. But the line had to
be drawn somewhere. It was drawn at the Kelveys. Many of
the children, including the Burnells, were not allowed even to
speak to them. They walked past the Kelveys with their heads
in the air, and as they set the fashion in all matters of behaviour,


the Kelveys were shunned by everybody. Even the teacher
had a special voice for them, and a special smile for the other
children when Lil Kelvey came up to her desk with a bunch of
dreadfully common-looking flowers.
  They were the daughters of a spry, hard-working little
washerwoman, who went about from house to house by the
day. This was awful enough. But where was Mr. Kelvey?
Nobody knew for certain. But everybody said he was in prison.
So they were the daughters of a washerwoman and a gaolbird.
Very nice company for other people's children! And they
looked it. Why Mrs. Kelvey made them so conspicuous was
hard to understand. The truth was they were
<P 340>
dressed in "bits"
given to her by the people for whom she worked. Lil, for
instance, who was a stout, plain child, with big freckles, came
to school in a dress made from a green art-serge tablecloth of
the Burnells', with red plush sleeves from the Logan's curtains.
Her hat, perched on top of her high forehead, was a grown-up
woman's hat, once the property of Miss Lecky, the postmistress.
It was turned up at the back and trimmed with a large scarlet
quill. What a little guy she looked! It was impossible not to
laugh. And her little sister, our Else, wore a long white dress,
rather like a nightgown, and a pair of little boy's boots. But
whatever our Else wore she would have looked strange. She
was a tiny wishbone of a child, with cropped hair and enormous
solemn eyes - a little white owl. Nobody had ever seen her
smile; she scarcely ever spoke. She went through life holding
on to Lil, with a piece of Lil's skirt screwed up in her hand.
Where Lil went, our Else followed. In the playground, on
the road going to and from school, there was Lil marching in
front with our Else holding on behind. Only when she wanted
anything, or when she was out of breath, our Else gave Lil a
tug, a twitch, and Lil stopped and turned round. The Kelveys
never failed to understand each other.
  Now they hovered at the edge; you couldn't stop them
listening. When the little girls turned round and sneered, Lil,


as usual, gave her silly, shamefaced smile, but our Else only
looked.
  And Isabel's voice, so very proud, went on telling. The
carpet made a great sensation, but so did the beds with real
bedclothes, and the stove with an oven door.
  When she finished Kezia broke in. "You've forgotten the
lamp, Isabel."
  "Oh, yes," said Isabel, "and there's a teeny little lamp, all
made of yellow glass, with a white globe that stands on the
dining-room table. You couldn't tell it from a real one."
  "The lamp's best of all," cried Kezia. She thought Isabel
wasn't making half enough of the little lamp. But nobody paid
any attention. Isabel was choosing the two who were to come
back with them that afternoon and see it. She chose Emmie
Cole and Lena Logan. But when the others knew they were all
to have a chance, they couldn't be nice enough to Isabel. One
<P 341>
by one they put their arms round Isabel's waist and walked her
off. They had something to whisper to her, a secret. "Isabel's
m_y_ friend."
  Only the little Kelveys moved away forgotten; there was
nothing more for them to hear.
  Days passed, and as more children saw the doll's house, the
fame of it spread. It became the one subject, the rage. The
one question was. "Have you seen Burnells' doll's house? Oh,
ain't it lovely!" "Haven't you seen it? Oh, I say!"
  Even the dinner hour was given up to talking about it. The
little girls sat under the pines eating their thick mutton sandwiches
and big slabs of johnny cake spread with butter. While
always, as near as they could get, sat the Kelveys, our Else
holding on to Lil, listening too, while they chewed their jam
sandwiches out of a newspaper soaked with large red
blobs.
  "Mother," said Kezia, "can't I ask the Kelveys just once?"
  "Certainly not, Kezia."


  "But why not?"
  "Run away, Kezia; you know quite well why not."
  At last everybody had seen it except them. On that day the
subject rather flagged. It was the dinner hour. The children
stood together under the pine trees, and suddenly, as they looked
at the Kelveys eating out of their paper, always by themselves,
always listening, they wanted to be horrid to them. Emmie
Cole started the whisper.
  "Lil Kelvey's going to be a servant when she grows up."
  "O-oh, how awful!" said Isabel Burnell, and she made eyes
at Emmie.
  Emmie swallowed in a very meaning way and nodded to
Isabel as she'd seen her mother do on those occasions.
  "It's true - it's true - it's true," she said.
  Then Lena Logan's little eyes snapped. "Shall I ask her?"
she whispered.
  "Bet you don't," said Jessie May.
  "Pooh, I'm not frightened," said Lena. Suddenly she gave
a little squeal and danced in front of the other girls. "Watch!
Watch me! Watch me now!" said Lena. And sliding, gliding,
dragging one foot, giggling behind her hand, Lena went over
to the Kelveys.
<P 342>
  Lil looked up from her dinner. She wrapped the rest quickly
away. Our Else stopped chewing. What was coming now?
  "Is it true you're going to be a servant when you grow up,
Lil Kelvey?" shrilled Lena.
  Dead silence. But instead of answering, Lil only gave her
silly, shamefaced smile. She didn't seem to mind the question
at all. What a sell for Lena! The girls began to titter.
  Lena couldn't stand that. She put her hands on her hips;
she shot forward. "Yah, yer father's in prison!" she hissed
spitefully.
  This was such a marvellous thing to have said that the little
girls rushed away in a body, deeply, deeply excited, wild with


joy. Someone found a long rope, and they began skipping.
And never did they skip so high, run in and out so fast, or do
such daring things as on that morning.
  In the afternoon Pat called for the Burnell children with the
buggy and they drove home. There were visitors. Isabel and
Lottie, who liked visitors, went upstairs to change their pinafores.
But Kezia thieved out at the back. Nobody was about;
she began to swing on the big white gates of the courtyard.
Presently, looking along the road, she saw two little dots.
They grew bigger, they were coming towards her. Now she
could see that one was in front and one close behind. Now she
could see that they were the Kelveys. Kezia stopped swinging.
She slipped off the gate as if she was going to run away. Then
she hesitated. The Kelveys came nearer, and beside them
walked their shadows, very long, stretching right across the
road with their heads in the buttercups. Kezia clambered
back on the gate; she had made up her mind; she swung
out.
  "Hullo," she said to the passing Kelveys.
  They were so astounded that they stopped. Lil gave her
silly smile. Our Else stared.
<P 343>
  "You can come and see our doll's house if you want to,"
said Kezia, and she dragged one toe on the ground. But at that
Lil turned red and shook her head quickly.
  "Why not?" asked Kezia.
  Lil gasped, then she said, "Your ma told our ma you wasn't
to speak to us."
  "Oh, well," said Kezia. She didn't know what to reply.
"It doesn't matter, You can come and see our doll's house all
the same. Come on. Nobody's looking."
  But Lil shook her head still harder.
  "Don't you want to?" asked Kezia.
  Suddenly there was a twitch, a tug at Lil's skirt. She turned
round. Our Else was looking at her with big, imploring eyes;
she was frowning; she wanted to go. For a moment Lil looked


at our Else very doubtfully. But then our Else twitched her
skirt again. She started forward. Kezia led the way. Like two
little stray cats they followed across the courtyard to where the
doll's house stood.
  "There it is," said Kezia.
  There was a pause. Lil breathed loudly, almost snorted;
 our Else was still as stone.
  "I'll open it for you," said Kezia kindly. She undid the hook
and they looked inside.
  "There's the drawing-room and the dining-room, and that's
the - "
  "Kezia!"
  Oh, what a start they gave!
  "Kezia!"
  It was Aunt Beryl's voice. They turned round. At the
back door stood Aunt Beryl, staring as if she couldn't believe
what she saw.
  "How dare you ask the little Kelveys into the courtyard!"
said her cold, furious voice. "You know as well as I do, you're
not allowed to talk to them. Run away, children, run away at
once. And don't come back again," said Aunt Beryl. And she
stepped into the yard and shooed them out as if they were
chickens.
  "Off you go immediately!" she called, cold and proud.
  They did not need telling twice. Burning with shame,
shrinking together, Lil huddling along like her mother, our Else
dazed, somehow they crossed the big courtyard and squeezed
through the white gate.
  "Wicked, disobedient little girl!" said Aunt Beryl bitterly to
Kezia, and she slammed the doll's house to.
  The afternoon had been awful. A letter had come from
Willie Brent, a terrifying, threatening letter, saying if she did
not meet him that evening in Pulman's Bush, he'd come to the
front door and ask the reason why! But now that she had
frightened those little rats of
<P 344>
Kelveys and given Kezia a good


scolding , her heart felt lighter. That ghastly pressure was gone.
She went back to the house humming.
  When the Kelveys were well out of sight of Burnells', they
sat down to rest on a big red drainpipe by the side of the road.
Lil's cheeks were still burning; she took off the hat with the
quill and held it on her knee. Dreamily they looked over the
hay paddocks, past the creek, to the group of wattles where
Logan's cows stood waiting to be milked. What were their
thoughts?
  Presently our Else nudged up close to her sister. But now
she had forgotten the cross lady. She put out a finger and
stroked her siser's quill; she smiled her rare smile.
  "I seen the little lamp," she said softly.
  Then both were silent once more.


<T Taking the Veil><Y ?><P ???>
  It seemed impossible that anyone should be unhappy on
such a beautiful morning. Nobody was, decided Edna,
except herself. The windows were flung wide in the houses.
From within there came the sound of pianos, little hands chased
after each other and ran away from each other, practising
scales. The trees fluttered in the sunny gardens, all bright
with spring flowers. Street boys whistled, a little dog barked;
people passed by, walking so lightly, so swiftly, they looked
as though they wanted to break into a run. Now she actually
saw in the distance a parasol, peach-cloured, the first parasol
of the year.
  Perhaps even Edna did not look quite as unhappy as she felt.
It is not easy to look tragic at eighteen, when you are extremely
pretty, with the cheeks and lips and shining eyes of perfect
health. Above all, when you are wearing a French blue frock
and your new spring hat trimmed with cornflowers. True,
she carried under her arm a book bound in horrid black leather.
Perhaps the book provided a gloomy note, but only by accident;
it was the ordinary Library binding. For Edna had made going
to the Library an excuse for getting out of the house to think,
to realise what had happened, to decide somehow what was
to be done now.
  An awful thing had happened. Quite suddenly, at the theatre
last night, when she and Jimmy were seated side by side in the
dress-circle, without a moment's warning - in fact, she had
just finished a chocolate almond and passed the box to him
again - she had fallen in love with an actor. But - fallen - in
 - love....
  The feeling was unlike anything she had ever imagined


before. It wasn't in the least pleasant. It was hardly thrilling.
Unless you can call the most dreadful sensation of hopeless
misery, despair, agony and wretchedness, thrilling. Combined
with  certainty that if that actor met her on the pavement
after, while Jimmy was fetching their cab, she would follow
him to the ends of the earth, at a nod, at a sign, without giving
another thought to Jimmy or her father and mother or her
happy home and countless friends again....
  The play had begun fairly cheerfully. That was at the
chocolate almond stage. Then the hero had gone blind.
Terrible moment! Edna had cried so much she had to borrow
Jimmy's folded, smooth-feeling handkerchief as well. Not that
crying mattered. Whole rows were in tears. Even the men
blew their noses with a loud trumpeting noise and tried to peer
at the programme instead of looking at the stage. Jimmy, most
mercifully dry-eyed - for what would she have done without
his handkerchief? - squeezed her free hand, and whispered
"Cheer up, darling girl!" And it was then she had taken a
last chocolate almond to please him and passed the box again.
Then there had been that ghastly scene with the hero alone on
the stage in a deserted room at twilight, with a band playing
outside and the sound of cheering coming from the street. He
had tried - ah! how painfully, how pitifully! - to grope his way
to the window. He had succeeded at last. There he stood
holding the curtain while one beam of light, just one beam,
shone full on his raised sightless face, and the band faded away
into the distance....
  It was - really, it was absolutely - oh, the most - it was
simply - in fact, from that moment Edna knew her life could
never be the same. She drew her hand from Jimmy's, leaned
back, and shut the chocolate box for ever. This at last was love!
  Edna and Jimmy were engaged. She had had her hair up for
a year and a half; they had been publicly engaged for a year.
But they had known they were going to marry each other ever
since they walked in the Botanical Gardens with their nurses,


and sat on the grass with a wine biscuit and a piece of barley-sugar
each for their tea. It was so much an accepted thing that
Edna had worn a wonderfully good imitation of an engagement-ring
out of a cracker all the time she was at school. And up
till now they had been devoted to each other.
  But now it was over. It was so completely over that Edna
found it difficult to believe that Jimmy did not realise it too.
She smiled wisely, sadly, as she turned into the gardens of the
Convent of the Sacred Heart and mounted the path that led
through them to Hill Street. How much better to know it now
than to wait until after they were married! Now it was possible
that Jimmy would get over it. No, it was no use deceiving
herself; he would never get over it! His life was wrecked, was
ruined; that was inevitable. But he was young....Time,
people always said, Time might make a little, just a little
difference. In forty years when he was an old man, he
might be able to think of her calmly - perhaps. But she,
 - what did the future hold for her?
  Edna had reached the top of the path. There under a newleafed
tree, hung with little bunches of white flowers, she sat
down on a green bench and looked over the Convent flower-beds.
In the one nearest to her there grew tender stocks,
with a border of blue, shell-like pansies, with one corner a
clump of creamy freesias, their light spears of green criss-crossed
over the flowers. The Convent pigeons were tumbling
high in the air, and she could hear the voice of Sister Agnes who
was giving a singing lesson. A_h_-_m_e_, sounded the deep tones
of the nun, and A_h_-_m_e_, they were echoed....
  If she did not marry Jimmy, of course she would marry
nobody. The man she was in love with, the famous actor -
Edna had far too much common-sense not to realise that would
never be. It was very odd. She didn't even want it to be.
Her love was too intense for that. It had to be endured, silently;
it had to torment her. It was, she supposed, simply that kind
of love.


  "But, Edna!" cried Jimmy. "Can you never change?
Can I never hope again?"
  Oh, what sorrow to have to say it, but it must be said. "No,
Jimmy, I will never change."
  Edna bowed her head; and a little flower fell on her lap, and
the voice of Sister Agnes cried suddenly A_h_-n_o_, and the echo
came, A_h_-n_o_...
  At that moment the future was revealed. Edna saw it all.
She was astonished; it took her breath away at first. But,
after all, what could be more natural? She would go into a
convent....Her father and mother do everything to dissuade
her, in vain. As for Jimmy, his state of mind hardly bears
thinking about. Why can't they understand? How can they
add to her suffering like this? The world is cruel, terribly
cruel! After a last scene when she gives away her jewellery
and so on to her best friends - she so calm, they so broken-hearted
 - into a convent she goes. No, one moment. The very
evening of her going is the actor's last night at Port Willin.
He receives by a strange messenger a box. It is full of white
flowers. But there is no name, no card. Nothing? Yes, under
the roses, wrapped in a white handkerchief, Edna's last
photograph with, written underneath,
  The world forgetting, by the world forgot.
  Edna sat very still under the trees; she clasped the black
book in her fingers as though it were her missal. She takes the
name of Sister Angela. Snip! Snip! All her lovely hair is
cut off. Will she be allowed to send one curl to Jimmy? It
is contrived somehow. And in a blue gown with a white headband
Sister Angela goes from the convent to the chapel, from
the chapel to the convent with something unearthly in her look,
in her sorrowful eyes, and in the gentle smile with which they
greet the little children who run to her. A saint! She hears it
whispered as she paces the chill, wax-smelling corridors. A
saint! And visitors to the chapel are told of the nun whose


voice is heard above the other voices, of her youth, her beauty,
of her tragic, tragic love. "There is a man in this town whose
life is ruined...."
  A big bee, a golden furry fellow, crept into a freesia, and the
delicate flower leaned over, swung, shook; and when the bee
flew away it fluttered still as though it were laughing. Happy,
careless flower!
  Sister Angela looked at it and said, "Now it is winter." One
night, lying in her icy cell, she hears a cry. Some stray animal
is out there in the garden, a kitten or a lamb or - well, whatever
little animal might be there. Up rises the sleepless nun. All in
white, shivering but fearless, she goes and brings it in. But next
morning, when the bell rings for matins, she is found tossing
in high fever...in delirium...and she never recovers. In
three days all is over. The service has been said in the chapel,
and she is buried in the corner of the cemetry reserved for the
nuns, where there are plain little crosses of wood. Rest in
Peace, Sister Angela....
  Now it is evening. Two old people leaning on each
other come slowly to the grave and kneel down sobbing,
  "Our daughter! Our only daughter!" Now there comes
another. He is all in black; he comes slowly. But when he is
there and lifts his black hat, Edna sees to her horror his hair is
snow-white. Jimmy! Too late, too late! The tears are
running down his face; he is crying n_o_w_. Too late, too late!
The wind shakes the leafless trees in the courtyard. He gives
one awful bitter cry.
  Edna's black book fell with a thud to the garden path. She
jumped up, her heart beating. My darling! No, it's not too
late. It's all been a mistake, a terrible dream. Oh, that white
hair! How could she have done it? She had not done it. Oh,
heavens! Oh, what happiness! She is free, young, and nobody
knows her secret. Everything is still possible for her and Jimmy.
The house they have planned may still be built, the little solemn
boy with his hands behind his back watching them plant the


standard roses may still be born. His baby sister...But when
Edna got as far as his baby sister, she stretched out her arms as
though the little love came flying through the air to her, and
gazing at the garden, at the white sprays on the tree, at those
darling pigeons blue against the blue, and the Convent with its
narrow windows, she realized that now at last for the first time in
her life - she had never imagined any feeling like it before - she
knew what it was to be in love, but - in - love!


<T The Fly><Y 1923><P 353>
  "Y'are very snug in here," piped old Mr. Woodifield,
and he peered out of the great, green-leather armchair
by his friend the boss's desk as a baby peers out of its pram.
His talk was over; it was time for him to be off. But he did
not want to go. Since he had retired, since his...stroke, the
wife and the girls kept him boxed up in the house every day of
the week except Tuesday. On Tuesday he was dressed and
brushed and allowed to cut back to the City for the day. Though
what he did there the wife and girls couldn't imagine. Made a
nuisance of himself to his friends, they supposed....Well,
perhaps so. All the same, we cling to our last pleasures as the
tree clings to its last leaves. So there sat old Woodifield,
smoking a cigar and staring almost greedily at the boss, who
rolled in his office chair, stout, rosy, five years older than he,
and still going strong, still at the helm. It did one good to see
him.
  Wistfully, admiringly, the old voice added, "It's snug in here,
upon my word!"
  "Yes, it's comfortable enough," agreed the boss, and he


flipped the F_i_n_a_n_c_i_a_l__T_i_m_e_s_ with a paper-knife. As a matter of
fact he was proud of his room; he liked to have it admired,
especially by old Woodifield. It gave him a feeling of deep,
solid satisfaction to be planted there in the midst of it in full view
of that frail old figure in the muffler.
  "I've had it done up lately," he explained, as he had explained
for the past - how many? - weeks. "New carpet," and he
pointed to the bright red carpet with a pattern of large white
rings. "New furniture," and he nodded towards the massive
bookcase and the table with legs like twisted treacle. "Electric
heating!" He waved almost
<P 354>
exultantly towards the five transparent,
pearly sausages glowing so softly in the tilted copper
pan.
  But he did not draw old Woodifield's attention to the
photograph over the table of a grave-looking boy in uniform
standing in one of those spectral photographers' parks with
photographers' storm-clouds behind him. It was not new.
It had been there for over six years.
  "There was something I wanted to tell you," said old
Woodifield, and his eyes grew dim remembering. "Now
what was it? I had it in my mind when I started out
this morning." His hands began to tremble, and patches of
red showed above his beard.
  Poor old chap, he's on his last pins, thought the boss. And,
feeling kindly, he winked at the old man, and said jokingly,
"I tell you what. I've got a little drop of something here that'll
do you good before you go out into the cold again. It's beautiful
stuff. It wouldn't hurt a child." He took a key off his watch-chain,
unlocked a cupboard below his desk, and drew forth a
dark, squat bottle. "That's the medicine," said he. "And the
man from whom I got it told me on the strict Q.T. it came from
the cellars at Windor Castle."
  Old Woodifield's mouth fell open at the sight. He couldn't
have looked more surprised if the boss had produced a
rabbit.


  "It's whisky, ain't it?" he piped feebly.
  The boss turned the bottle and lovingly showed him the
label. Whisky it was.
  "D'you know," said he, peering up at the boss wonderingly,
"they won't let me touch it at home." And he looked as though
he was going to cry.
  "Ah, that's where we know a bit more than the ladies,"
cried the boss, swooping across for two tumblers that stood
on the table with the water-bottle, and pouring a generous
finger into each. "Drink it down. It'll do you good.
And don't put any water with it. It's sacrilege to tamper
with stuff like this. Ah!" He tossed off his, pulled out his
handkerchief, hastily wiped his moustaches, and cocked an
eye at old Woodifield, who was rolling his in his chaps.
  The old man swallowed, was silent a moment, and then said
faintly, "It's nutty!"
<P 355>
  But it warmed him; it crept into his chill old brain - he
remembered.
  "That was it," he said, heaving himself out of his chair. "I
thought you'd like to know. The girls were in Belgium last
week having a look at poor Reggie's grave, and they happened
to come across your boy's. They're quite near each other,
it seems."
  Old Woodifield paused, but the boss made no reply. Only a
quiver in his eyelids showed that he heard.
  "The girls were delighted with the way the place is kept,"
piped the old voice. "Beautifully looked after. Couldn't be
better if they were at home. You've not been across, have
yer?"
  "No, no!" For various reasons the boss had not been
across.
  "There's miles of it," quavered old Woodifield, "and it's all
as neat as a garden. Flowers growing on all the graves. Nice
broad paths." It was plain from his voice how much he liked
a nice broad path.


  The pause came again. Then the old man brightened
wonderfully.
  "D'you know what the hotel made the girls pay for a pot
of jam?" he piped. "Ten francs! Robbery, I call it. It was a
little pot, so Gertrude says, no bigger than a half-crown. And
she hadn't taken more than a spoonful when they charged her
ten francs. Gertrude brought the pot away with her to teach
'em a lesson. Quite right, too; it's trading on our feelings.
They think because we're over there having a look round we're
ready to pay anything. That's what it is." And he turned
towards the door.
  "Quite right, quite right!" cried the boss, though what was
quite right he hadn't the least idea. He came round by his
desk, followed the shuffling footsteps to the door, and saw the
old fellow out. Woodifield was gone.
  For a long moment the boss stayed, staring at nothing, while
the grey-haired office messenger, watching him, dodged in and
out of his cubby-hole like a dog that expects to be taken for a
run. Then: "I'll see nobody for half an hour, Macey," said the
boss. "Understand? Nobody at all."
   "Very good, sir."
  The door shut, the firm heavy steps recrossed the bright
carpet, the fat body plumped down in the spring chair, and
<P 356>
leaning forward, the boss covered his face with his hands. He
wanted, he intended, he had arranged to weep....
  It had been a terrible shock to him when old Woodifield
sprang that remark upon him about the boy's grave. It was
exactly as though the earth had opened and he had seen the boy
lying there with Woodifield's girls staring down at him. For
it was strange. Although over six years had passed away, the
boss never thought of the boy except as lying unchanged, unblemished
in his uniform, asleep for ever. "My son!" groaned
the boss. But no tears came yet. In the past, in the first few months
and even years after the boy's death, he had only to say those
words to be overcome by such grief that nothing short of a


violent fit of weeping could relieve him. Time, he had declared
then, he had told everybody, could make no difference. Other
men perhaps might recover, might live their loss down, but not
he. How was it possible? His boy was an only son. Ever
since his birth the boss had worked at building up this business
for him; it had no other meaning if it was not for the boy.
Life itself had come to have no other meaning. How on earth
could he have slaved, denied himself, kept going all those years
without the promise for ever before him of the boy's stepping
into his shoes and carrying on where he left off?
  And that promise had been so near being fulfilled. The boy
had been in the office learning the ropes for a year before the
war. Every morning they had started off together; they had
come back by the same train. And what congratulations he had
received as the boy's father! No wonder; he had taken to it
marvellously. As to his popularity with the staff, every man
jack of them down to old Macey couldn't make enough of the
boy. And he wasn't the least spoilt. No, he was just his
bright natural self, with the right word for everybody, with that
boyish look and his habit of saying, "Simply splendid!"
  But all that was over and done with as though it never had
been. The day had come when Macey had handed him the
telegram that brought the whole place crashing about his head.
"Deeply regret to inform you..." And he had left the office
a broken man, with his life in ruins.
  Six years ago, six years....How quickly time passed! It
<P 357>
might have happened yesterday. The boss took his hands
from his face; he was puzzled. Something seemed to be wrong
with him. He wasn't feeling as he wanted to feel. He decided
to get up and have a look at the boy's photograph. But it wasn't
a favourite photograph of his; the expression was unnatural.
It was cold, even stern-looking. The boy had never looked like
that.
  At that moment the boss noticed that a fly had fallen into his
broad inkpot, and was trying feebly but deperately to clamber


out again. Help! help! said those struggling legs. But the
sides of the inkpot were wet and slippery; it fell back again and
began to swim. The boss took up a pen, picked the fly out of
the ink, and shook it on to a piece of blotting-paper. For a
fraction of a second it lay still on the dark patch that oozed
round it. Then the front legs waved, took hold, and, pulling its
small, sodden body up, it began the immense task of cleaning
the ink from its wings. Over and under, over and under, went
a leg along a wing, as the stone goes over and under the scythe.
Then there was a pause, while the fly, seeming to stand on the
tips of its toes, tried to expand first one wing and then the other.
It succeeded at last, and, sitting down, it began, like a minute
cat, to clean its face. Now one could imagine that the little
front legs rubbed against each other lightly, joyfully. The
horrible danger was over; it had escaped; 1t was ready for
life again.
  But just then the boss had an idea. He plunged his pen back
into the ink, leaned his thick wrist on the blotting-paper, and as
the fly tried its wings down came a great heavy blot. What
would it make of that? What indeed! The little beggar
seemed absolutely cowed, stunned, and afraid to move because
of what would happen next. But then, as if painfully, it dragged
itself forward. The front legs waved, caught hold, and, more
slowly this time, the task began from the beginning.
  He's a plucky little devil, thought the boss, and he felt a
real admiration for the fly's courage. That was the way to
tackle things; that was the right spirit. Never say die; it was
only a question of...But the fly had again finished its laborious
task, and the boss had just time to refill his pen, to shake fair
and square on the new-cleaned body yet another dark drop.
What about it this time? A painful moment of suspense
followed. But behold, the front legs were again waving; the
<P 358>
boss felt a rush of relief. He leaned over the fly and said to it
tenderly, "You artful little b..." And he actually had the
brilliant notion of breathing on it to help the drying process.


All the same, there was something timid and weak about its
efforts now, and the boss decided that this time should be the
last, as he dipped the pen deep into the inkpot.
  It was. The last blot fell on the soaked blotting-paper, and
the draggled fly lay in it and did not stir. The back legs were
stuck to the body; the front legs were not to be seen.
  "Come on," said the boss. "Look sharp!" And he stirred
it with his pen - in vain. Nothing happened or was likely to
happen. The fly was dead.
  The boss lifted the corpse on the end of the paper-knife and
flung it into the waste-paper basket. But such a grinding feeling
of wretchedness seized him that he felt positively frightened.
He started forward and pressed the bell for Macey.
  "Bring me some fresh blotting-paper," he said sternly,"and
look sharp about it." And while the old dog padded away he
fell to wondering what it was he had been thinking about before.
What was it? It was...He took out his handkerchief and
passed it inside his collar. For the life of him he could not
remember.


<T The Canary><P 359>
  ...You see that big nail to the right of the front door?
I can scarcely look at it even now and yet I could
not bear to take it out. I should like to think it was there always
even after my time. I sometimes hear the next people saying,
"There must have been a cage hanging from there." And it
comforts me; I feel he is not quite forgotten.
  ...You cannot imagine how wonderfully he sang. It was
not like the singing of other canaries. And that isn't just my


fancy. Often, from the window, I used to see people stop at
the gate to listen, or they would lean over the fence by the
mock-orange for quite a long time - carried away. I suppose
it sounds absurd to you - it wouldn't if you had heard him -
but it really seemed to me that he sang whole songs with a
beginning and an end to them.
  For instance, when I'd finished the house in the afternoon,
and changed my blouse and brought my sewing on to the
veranda here, he used to hop, hop, hop from one perch to
another, tap against the bars as if to attract attention, sip a
little water just as a professional singer might, and then break
into a song so exquisite that I had to put my needle down to
listen to him. I can't describe it; I wish I could. But it was
always the same, every afternoon, and I felt that I understood
every note of it.
  ...I loved him. How I loved him! Perhaps it does not
matter so very much what it is one loved in this world. But
love something one must. Of course there was always my
little house and the garden, but for some reason they were never
enough. Flowers respond wonderfully, but they don't sympathise.
Then I loved the evening star. Does that sound foolish?
I used to go into the backyard, after sunset, and wait for it until
it shone above the dark gum tree. I used to whisper, "There
you are, my darling." And just in that first moment it seemed
<P 360>
to be shining for me alone. It seemed to understand this...
something which is like longing, and yet it is not longing. Or
regret - it is more like regret. And yet regret for what? I have
much to be thankful for.
  ...But after he came into my life I forgot the evening star;
I did not need it any more. But it was strange. When the
Chinaman who came to the door with birds to sell held him
up in his tiny cage, and instead of fluttering, fluttering, like the
poor little goldfinches, he gave a faint, small chirp, I found
myself saying, just as I had said to the star over the gum tree,
"There you are, darling." From that moment he was mine.


  ...It surprises me even now to remember how he and I
shared each other's lives. The moment I came down in the
morning and took the cloth off his cage he greeted me with a
drowsy little note. I knew it meant "Missus! Missus!" Then
I hung him on the nail outside while I got my three young
men their breakfasts, and I never brought him in until we had
the house to ourselves again. Then, when the washing-up was
done, it was quite a little entertainment. I spread a newspaper
over a corner of the table, and when I put the cage on it he used
to beat with his wings despairingly, as if he didn't know what
was coming. "You're a regular little actor," I used to scold
him. I scraped the tray, dusted it with fresh sand, filled his
seed and water tins, tucked a piece of chickweed and half a
chilli between the bars. And I am perfectly certain he understood
and appreciated every item of this little performance. You
see by nature he was exquisitely neat. There was never a speck
on his perch. And you'd only to see him enjoy his bath to
realise he had a real small passion for cleanliness. His bath
was put in last. And the moment it was in he positively leapt
into it. First he fluttered one wing, then the other, then he
ducked his head and dabbled his breast feathers. Drops of
water were scattered all over the kitchen, but still he would not
get out. I used to say to him, "Now that's quite enough.
You're showing off." And at last out he hopped and,
standing on one leg, he began to peck himself dry. Finally he
gave a shake, a flick, a twitter and he lifted his throat - Oh, I
can hardly bear to recall it. I was always cleaning the knives at
the time. And it almost seemed to me the knives sang too, as
I rubbed them bright on the board.
<P 361>
  ...Company, you see - that was what he was. Perfect
company. If you have lived alone you will realise how precious
that is. Of course there were my three young men who came
in to supper every evening, and sometimes they stayed in the
dining-room afterwards reading the paper. But I could not
expect them to be interested in the little things that made my


day. Why should they be? I was nothing to them. In fact,
I overheard them one evening talking about me on the stairs as
"the Scarecrow." No matter. It doesn't matter. Not in the
least. I quite understand. They are young. Why should I
mind? But I remember feeling so especially thankful that I
was not quite alone that evening. I told him, after they had
gone out. I said, "Do you know what they call Missus?" And
he put his head on one side and looked at me with his little
bright eye until I could not help laughing. It seemed to amuse
him.
  ...Have you kept birds? If you haven't all this must sound,
perhaps, exaggerated. People have the idea that birds are
heartless, cold little creatures, not like dogs or cats. My washerwoman
used to say on Mondays when she wondered why I
didn't keep  "A nice fox-terrier," "There's no comfort, Miss, in
a canary." Untrue. Dreadfully untrue. I remember one
night. I had had a very awful dream - dreams can be dreadfully
cruel - even after I had woken up I could not get over it. So
I put on my dressing-gown and went down to the kitchen for a
glass of water. It was a winter night and raining hard. I suppose
I was still half asleep, but through the kitchen window, that
hadn't a blind, it seemed to me the dark was staring in, spying.
And suddenly I felt it was unbearable that I had no one to whom
I could say "I've had such a dreadful dream," or - or "Hide me
from the dark." I even covered my face for a minute. And
then there came a little "Sweet! Sweet!" His cage was on the
table, and the cloth had slipped so the a chink of light shone
through.  "Sweet, Sweet!" said the darling little fellow again,
softly, as much as to say, "I'm here, Missus! I'm here!" That
was so beautifully comforting that I nearly cried.
  ...And now he's gone. I shall never have another bird,
another pet of any kind. How could I? When I found him,
lying on his back, with his eye dim and his claws wrung, when
I realised that never again should I hear my darling sing, something
<P 362>
seemed to die in me. My heart felt hollow, as if it was


his cage. I shall get over it. Of course. I must. One can get
over anything in time. And people say I have a cheerful
disposition. They are quite right. I thank my God I have.
  ...All the same, without being morbid, and giving way to
 - to memories and so on, I must confess that there does seem
to me something sad in life. It is hard to say what it is. I don't
mean the sorrow that we all know, like illness and poverty and
death. No, it is something different. It is there, deep down,
deep down, part of one, like one's breathing. However hard
I work and tire myself I have only to stop to know it is there,
waiting. I often wonder if everybody feels the same. One can
never know. But isn't it extraordinary that under his sweet,
joyful little singing it was just this - sadness? - Ah, what is it?
 - that I heard.



<T Six Years After><Y ?><P ???>
  It was not the afternoon to be on deck - on the contrary,
it was exactly the afternoon when there is no snugger place
than a warm cabin, a warm bunk. Tucked up with a rug, a
hot-water bottle and a piping hot cup of tea she would not
have minded the weather in the least. But he - hated cabins,
hated to be inside anywhere more than was absolutely necessary.
He had a passion for keeping, as he called it, above board,
especially when he was travelling. And it wasn't surprising,
considering the enormous amount of time he spent cooped up
in the office. So, when he rushed away from her as soon as
they got on board and came back five minutes later to say he
had secured two deck-chairs on the lee side and the steward
was undoing the rugs, her voice through the high sealskin
collar murmured "Good"; and because he was looking at her,
she smiled with bright eyes and blinked quickly, as if to say,
"Yes, perfectly all right - absolutely." And she meant it.
  "Then we'd better - " said he, and he tucked her hand inside
his arm and began to rush her off to where their chairs stood.
But she just had time to breathe, "Not so fast, Daddy, please,"
when he remembered too and slowed down.
  Strange! They had been married twenty-eight years, and it
was still an effort to him, each time, to adapt his pace to hers.
  "Not cold, are you?" he asked, glancing sideways at her.


Her little nose, geranium pink above the dark fur, was answer
enough. But she thrust her free hand into the velvet pocket
of her jacket and murmured gaily, "I shall be glad of my
rug."
  He pressed her tighter to his side - a quick, nervous pressure.
He knew, of course, that she ought to be down in the cabin;
he knew that it was no afternoon for her to be sitting on deck,
in this cold and raw mist, lee side or no lee side, rugs or no rugs,
and he realised how she must be hating it. But he had come to
believe that it really was easier for her to make these sacrifices
than it was for him. Take their present case, for instance. If
he had gone down to the cabin with her, he would have been
miserable the whole time, and he couldn't have helped showing
it. At any rate, she would have found him out. Whereas
having made up her mind to fall in with his ideas, he would
have betted anybody she would even go so far as to enjoy the
experience. Not because she was without personality of her
own. Good Lord! She was absolutely brimming with it.
But because...but here his thoughts always stopped. Here
they always felt the need of a cigar, as it were. And, looking
at the cigar-tip, his fine blue eyes narrowed. It was a law of
marriage, he supposed....All the same, he always felt guilty
when he asked these sacrifices of her. That was what the quick
pressure meant. His being said to her being: "You do understand,
don't you?" and there was an answering tremor of her
fingers, "I u_n_d_e_r_s_t_a_n_d_."
  Certainly the steward - good little chap - had done all in
his power to make them comfortable. He had put up their
chairs in whatever warmth there was and out of the smell.
She did hope he would be tipped adequately. It was on occasions
like these (and her life seemed to be full of such occasions)
that she wished it was the woman who controlled the purse.
  "Thank you, steward. That will do beautifully."
  "Why are stewards so often delicate-looking?" she wondered,
as her feet were tucked under. "This poor little chap looks as


though he'd got a chest, and yet one would have thought...
the sea air..."
  The button of the pigskin purse was undone. The tray was
tilted. She saw sixpences, shillings, half-crowns.
  "I should give him five shillings," she decided, "and tell him
to buy himself a good nourishing - "
  He was given a shilling, and he touched his cap and seemed
genuinely grateful.
  Well, it might have been worse. It might have been sixpence.
It might, indeed. For at that moment Father turned towards
her and said, half apologetically, stuffing the purse back, "I
gave him a shilling. I think it was worth it, don't you?"
  "Oh, quite! Every bit!" said she.
  It is extraordinary how peaceful it feels on a little steamer
once the bustle of leaving port is over. In a quarter of an hour
one might have been at sea for days. There is something almost
touching, childish, in the way people submit themselves to the
new conditions. They go to bed in the early afternoon, they
shut their eyes and "it's night" like little children who turn
the table upside down and cover themselves with the tablecloth.
And those who remain on deck - they seem to be
always the same, those few hardened men travellers - pause,
light their pipes, stamp softly, gaze out to sea, and their voices
are subdued as they walk up and down. The long-legged
little girl chases after the red-cheeked boy, but soon both are
captured; and the old sailor, swinging an unlighted lantern,
passes and disappears...
  He lay back, the rug up to his chin, and she saw he was
breathing deeply. Sea air! If anyone believed in sea air it was
he. He had the strongest faith in its tonic qualities. But the
great thing was, according to him, to fill the lungs with it the
moment you came on board. Otherwise, the sheer strength
of it was enough to give you a chill....
  She gave a small chuckle, and he turned to her quickly.
"What is it?"



  "It's your cap," she said. "I never can get used to you in a
cap. You look such a thorough burglar."
  "Well, what the deuce am I to wear?" He shot up one grey
eyebrow and wrinkled his nose. "It's a very good cap, too.
Very fine specimen of its kind. It's got a very rich white satin
lining." He paused. He declaimed, as he had hundreds of
times before at this stage, "Rich and rare were the gems she
wore."
  But she was thinking he really was childishly proud of the
white satin lining. He would like to have taken off his cap and
made her feel it. "Feel the quality!" How often had she
rubbed between finger and thumb his coat, his shirt cuff, tie,
sock, linen handkerchief, while he said that.
  She slipped down more deeply into her chair.
  And the little steamer pressed on, pitching gently, over the
grey, unbroken, gently moving water, that was veiled with
slanting rain.
  Far out, as though idly, listlessly, gulls were flying. Now
they settled on the waves, now they beat up into the rainy air
and shone against the pale sky like the lights within a pearl.
They looked cold and lonely. How lonely it will be when we
have passed by, she thought. There will be nothing but the
waves and those birds and rain falling.
  She gazed through the rust-spotted railing along which big
drops trembled, until suddenly she shut her lids. It was as if
a warning voice inside her had said, "Don't look!"
  "No, I won't, " she decided. "It's too depressing, much too
depressing."
  But, immediately, she opened her eyes and looked again.
Lonely birds, water lifting, white pale sky - how were they
changed?
  And it seemed to her there was a presence far out there,
between the sky and the water; someone very desolate and
longing watched them pass and cried as if to stop them - but
cried to her alone.


  "Mother!"
  "Don't leave me," sounded in the cry. "Don't forget me!
You are forgetting me, you know you are!" And it was as
though from her own breast there came the sound of childish
weeping.
  "My son - my precious child - it isn't true!"
  S_h_! How was it possible that she was sitting there on that
quiet steamer beside Father and at the same time she was hushing
and holding a little slender boy - so pale - who had just waked
out of a dreadful dream?
  "I dreamed I was in a wood - somewhere far away from
everybody - and I was lying down and a great blackberry
vine grew over me. And I called and called to you - and you
wouldn't come - you wouldn't come - so I had to lie there for
ever."
  What a terrible dream! He had always had terrible dreams.
How often, years ago, when he was small, she had made some
excuse and escaped from their friends in the dining-room or
the drawing-room to come to the foot of the stairs and listen.
"Mother!" And when he was asleep, his dream had journeyed
with her back into the circle of lamplight; it had taken its place
there like a ghost. And now -
  Far more often - at all times - in all places - like now, for
instance - she never settled down, she was never off her guard
for a moment but she heard him. He wanted her. "I am
coming as fast as I can! As fast as I can!" But the dark stairs
have no ending, and the worst dream of all - the one that is
always the same - goes for ever and ever uncomforted.
  This is anguish! How is it to be borne? Still, it is not the
idea of her suffering which is unbearable - it is his. Can one
do nothing for the dead? And for a long time the answer had
been - Nothing!
  ...But softly without a sound the dark curtain has rolled
down. There is no more to come. That is the end of the play.


But it can't end like that - so suddenly. There must be more.
No, it's cold, it's still. There is nothing to be gained by waiting.
  But - did he go back again? Or, when the war was over,
did he come home for good? Surely, he will marry - later on -
not for several years. Surely, one day I shall remember his
wedding and my first grandchild - a beautiful dark-haired boy
born in the early morning - a lovely morning - spring!
  "Oh, Mother, it's not fair to me to put these ideas into my
head! Stop, Mother, stop! When I think of all I have missed,
I can't bear it!"
  "I can't bear it!" She sits up breathing the words and tosses
the dark rug away. It is colder than ever, and now the dusk is
falling, falling like ash upon the pallid water.
  And the little steamer, growing determined, throbbed on,
pressed on, as if at the end of the journey there waited...


<T Daphne>
  I had been in Port Willin six months when I decided to
give a one-man show. Not that I was particularly keen,
but little Field, the picture-shop man, had just started a gallery
and he wanted me - begged me, rather - to kick off for him.
He was a decent little chap; I hadn't the heart to refuse. And
besides, as it happened, I had a good deal of stuff that I felt
it would be rather fun to palm off on any one who was fool
enough to buy it. So with these high aims I had the cards
printed, the pictures framed in plain white frames, and God
knows how many cups and saucers ordered for the Private View.
  What was I doing in Port Willin? Oh well - why not? I'll


own it does sound an unlikely spot, but when you are an impermanent
movable, as I am, it's just those unlikely spots that
have a trick of holding you. I arrived, intending to stay a
week and go on to Fiji. But I had letters to one or two people,
and the morning of my arrival, hanging over the side of the
ship while we were waiting in the stream, with nothing on earth
to do but stare, I took an extraordinary fancy to the shape - to
the look of the place.
  It's a small town, you know, planted at the edge of a fine
deep harbour like a lake. Behind it,on either side, there are
hills. The houses are built of light painted wood. They have
iron roofs coloured red. And there are big dark plumy trees
massed together, breaking up those light shapes, giving a depth
- warmth - making a composition of it well worth looking
at....Well, we needn't go into that - But it had me that
fine morning. And the first days after my arrival, walking, or
driving out in one of the big swinging, rocking cabs, I took an
equal fancy to the people.
  Not to quite all of them. The men left me cold. Yes, I
must say, colonial men are not the brightest specimens. But
I never struck a place where the average female attractiveness
was so high. You can't help noticing it, for a peculiarity
of Port Willin is the number of its teashops and the vast quantity
of tea absorbed by its inhabitants. Not tea only - sandwiches,
cream cakes, ices, fruit salad with fresh pine-apples. From
eleven o'clock in the morning you meet with couples and
groups of girls and young married women hurrying off to
their first tea. It was a real eleven o'clock function. Even the
business men knocked off and went to a cafe\. And the same
thing happened in the afternoon. From four until half-past six
the streets were gay as a garden. Which reminds me, it was
early spring when I arrived and the town smelled of moist
earth and the first flowers. In fact, wherever one went one got
a strong whiff, like the whiff of violets in a wood, which was
enough in itself to make one feel like lingering....


  There was a theatre too, a big bare building plastered over
with red and blue bills which gave it an oriental look in that
blue air, and a touring company was playing "San Toy." I
went my first evening. I found it, for some reason, fearfully
exciting. The inside smelled of gas, of glue and burnt paper.
Whistling draughts cut along the corridors - a strong wind
among the orchestra kept the palms trembling, and now and
again the curtain blew out and there was a glimpse of a pair of
large feet walking rapidly away. But what women! What
girls in muslin dresses with velvet sashes and little caps edged
with swansdown! In the interval long ripples of laughter
sounded from the stalls, from the dress-circle. And I leaned
against a pillar that looked as though it was made of wedding-cake
icing - and fell in love with whole rows at a time....
  Then I presented my letters, I was asked out to dine, and I
met these charmers in their own homes. That decided it. They
were something I had never known before - so gay, so friendly,
so impressed with the idea of one's being an artist! It was
rather like finding oneself in the playground of an extremely
attractive girl's school.
  I painted the Premier's daughter, a dark beauty, against a
tree hung with long, bell-like flowers as white as wax. I painted
a girl with a pigtail curled up on a white sofa playing with a
pale-red fan...and a little blonde in a black jacket with pearl
grey gloves....I painted like fury.
  I'm fond of women. As a matter of fact I'm a great deal
more at my ease with women than I am with men. Because I've
cultivated them, I suppose. You see, it's like this with me. I've
always had enough money to live on, and the consequence is
I have never had to mix with people more than I wished. And
I've equally always had - well, I suppose you might call it - a
passion for painting. Painting is far and away the most important
thing in life - as I see it. But - my work's my own
affair. It's the separate compartment which is me. No strangers
allowed in. I haven't the smallest desire to explain what it is


I'm after - or to hear other men. If people like my work I'm
pleased. If they don't - well, if I was a shrugging person, I'd
shrug. This sounds arrogant. It isn't; I know my limitations.
But the truth about oneself always sounds arrogant, as no doubt
you've observed.
  But women - well, I can only speak for myself - I find the
presence of women, the consciousness of women, an absolute
necessity. I know they are considered a distraction, that the
very Big Pots seal themselves in their hives to keep away. All
I can say is work without women would be to me like dancing
without music or food without wine or a sailing boat without
a breeze. They just give me that ...what is it? Stimulus is
not enough; inspiration is far too much. That - well, if I
knew what it is, I should have solved a bigger problem than
my own! And problems aren't in my line.
  I expected a mob at my Private View, and I got it, too....
What I hadn't reckoned on was that there would be no men.
It was one thing to ask a painter fellow to knock you up something
to the tune of fifty guineas or so, but it was another
to make an ass of yourself staring. The Port Willin men would
as soon have gazed into shops. True, when you came to
Europe, you visited the galleries, but then you shop-gazed too.
It didn't matter what you did in Europe. You could walk
about for a week without being recognised.
  So there were little Field and I absolutely alone among all
the loveliness; it frightened him out of his life, but I didn't
mind, I thought it rather fun, especially as the sightseers didn't
hesitate to find my pictures amusing. I'm by no means an
out-and-out modern, as they say; people like violins and landscapes
of telegraph poles leave me cold. But Port Willin is
still trying to swallow Rossetti, and Hope by Watts is looked
upon as very advanced. It was natural my pictures should
surprise them. The fat old Lady Mayoress became quite
hysterical. She drew me over to one drawing; she patted my
arm with her fan.



  "I don't wonder you drew her slipping out," she gurgled.
"And how depressed she looks! The poor dear never could
have sat down in it. It's much too small. There ought to be
a little cake of Pears' Soap on the floor." And overcome by
her own joke, she flopped on the little double bench that ran
down the middle of the room, and even her fan seemed to
laugh.
  At that moment two girls passed in front of us. One I knew,
a big fair girl called May Pollock, pulled her companion by
the sleeve. "Daphne!" she said. "Daphne!" And the other
turned towards her, then towards us, smiled and was born,
christened part of my world from that moment.
  "Daphne!" Her quick, beautiful smile answered....
  Saturday morning was gloriously fine. When I woke up
and saw the sun streaming over the polished floor I felt like a
little boy who has been promised a picnic. It was all I could
do not to telephone Daphne. Was she feeling the same? It
seemed somehow such a terrific lark that we should be going
off together like this, just with a couple of rucksacks and our
bathing suits. I thought of other week-ends, the preparation,
the emotional tension, the amount of managing they'd needed.
But I couldn't really think of them; I couldn't be bothered,
they belonged to another life....
  It seemed to me suddenly so preposterous that two people
should be as happy as we were and not be happier. Here we
were, alone  miles away from everybody, free as air, and in love
with each other. I looked again at Daphne, at her slender
shoulders, her throat, her bosom, and passionately in love, I
decided with fervour: Wouldn't it be rather absurd, then, to
behave like a couple of children? Wouldn't she even, in spite
of all she had said, be disappointed if we did?...
  And I went off at a tremendous pace, not because I thought


she'd run after me, but I did think she might call, or I might
look round....
  It was one of those still, hushed days when the sea and the
sky seem to melt into one another, and it is long before the
moisture dries on the leaves and grasses.   One of those days
when the sea smells strong and there are gulls standing in a row
on the sand. The smoke from our wood fire hung in the air
and the smoke of my pipe mingled with it. I caught myself
staring at nothing. I felt dull and angry. I couldn't get over
the ridiculous affair. You see, my am_o_u_r__ p_r_o_p_r_e_ was wounded.
  Monday morning was grey, cloudy, one of those mornings
peculiar to the seaside when everything, the sea most of all,
seems exhausted and sullen. There had been a very high tide,
the road was wet - on the beach there stood a long line of
sickly-looking gulls....
  When we got on board she sat down on one of the green
benches and, muttering something about a pipe, I walked
quickly away. It was intolerable that we should still be together
after what had happened. It was indecent. I only asked - I
only longed for one thing - to be free of this still, unsmiling
and pitiful - that was the worst of it - creature who had been
my playful Daphne.
  For answer I telephoned her at once and asked if I might
come and see her that evening. Her voice sounded grave.
unlike the voice I remembered, and she seemed to deliberate.
There was a long pause before she said. "Yes - perhaps that
would be best."
  "Then I shall come at half-past six."
  "Very well."
  And we went into a room full of flowers and very large art
photographs of the Harbour by Night, A Misty Day, Moonrise
over the Water, and I know I wondered if she admired them.


  "Why did you send me that letter?"
  "Oh, but I had to," said Daphne. "I meant every word of it.
I only let you come to-night to...No, I know I shall disappoint
you. I'm wiser that you are for all your experience. I shan't
be able to live up to it. I'm not the person for you. Really
I'm not!"...


<T Honesty>
  There was an expression Rupert Henderson was very
fond of using: "If you want my h_o_n_e_s_t_ opinion...."
He had an honest opinion on every subject under the sun, and
nothing short of a passion for delivering it. But Archie Cullen's
pet phrase was "I cannot ho_n_e_s_t_l_y_ say..." Which meant that
he had not really made up his mind. He had not really made
up his mind on any subject whatsoever. Why? Because he
could not. He was unlike other men. He was minus something
 - or was it plus? No matter. He was not in the least proud of
the fact. It depressed him - one might go so far as to say -
terribly at times.
  Rupert and Archie lived together. That is to say, Archie
lived in Rupert's rooms. Oh, he paid his share, his half in
everything; the arrangement was a purely, strictly business
arrangement. But perhaps it was because Rupert had invited
Archie that Archie remained always - his guest. They each
had a bedroom - there was a common sitting-room and a
largish bathroom which Rupert used as a dressing-room as
well. The first morning after his arrival Archie had left his
sponge in the bathroom. and a moment after there was a knock
at his door and Rupert said, kindly but firmly, "Your sponge,
I fancy." The first evening Archie had brought his tobacco
jar into the sitting-room and placed it on a corner of the mantelpiece.
Rupert was reading the newspaper. It was a round
china jar, the surface painted and roughened to represent a sea-urchin.
On the lid was a spray of china seaweed with two
berries for a knob. Archie was excessively fond of it. But
after dinner, when Rupert took out his pipe and pouch, he
suddenly fixed his eyes on this object, blew through his


moustaches, gasped, and said in a wondering, astonished
voice, "I say! Is that yours or Mrs. Head's?" Mrs. Head
was their landlady.
  "It's mine," said Archie, and he blushed and smiled just a
trifle timidly.
  "I s_a_y_!" said Rupert again - this time very meaningly.
  "Would you rather I..." said Archie, and he moved in his
chair to get up.
  "No, no! Certainly not! On no account!" answered
Rupert, and he actually raised his hand. "But perhaps" - and
here he smiled at Archie and gazed about him - "perhaps we
might find some spot for it that was a trifle less conspicuous."
  The spot was not decided on, however, and Archie nipped his
sole personal possession into his bedroom as soon as Rupert
was out of the way.
  But it was chiefly at meals that the attitude of host and guest
was most marked. For instance, on each separate occasion,
even before they sat down, Rupert said, "Would you mind
cutting the bread, Archie?" Had he not made such a point of
it, it is possible that Archie in a moment of abstractness might
have grasped the bread knife....An unpleasant thought!
Again, Archie was never allowed to serve. Even at breakfast,
the hot dishes and the tea, both were dispensed by Rupert.
True, he had half apologised about the tea; he seemed to feel the
necessity of some slight explanation, there.
  "I'm rather a fad about my tea," said he. "Some people,
females especially, pour in the milk first. Fatal habit, for more
reasons than one. In my opinion, the cup should be filled just
s_o_ and the tea then coloured. Sugar, Archie?"
  "Oh, please," said Archie, almost bowing over the table.
Rupert was so very impressive.
  "But I suppose," said his friend, "you don't notice any of
these little things?"
  And Archie answered vaguely, stirring: "No, I don't
suppose I do."


   Rupert sat down and unfolded his napkin.
  "It would be very inconsistent with your character and disposition,"
said he genially, "if you did! Kidneys and bacon?
Scrambled eggs? Either? Both? Which?"
  Poor Archie hated scrambled eggs, but, alas! he was practically
certain that scrambled eggs were expected of him too.
This "psychological awareness," as Rupert called it, which
existed between them might after a time make things a trifle difficult.
He felt a little abject as he murmured, "Eggs, please."
And he saw by Rupert's expression that he had chosen right.
Rupert helped him to eggs largely.
  Psychological awareness...perhaps it was that which
explained their intimacy. One might have been tempted to
say it was a case of mutual fascination. But whereas Archie's
reply to the suggestion would have been a slow "Poss-ibly!"
Rupert would have flouted it at once.
  "Fascination! The word's preposterous in this connection.
What on earth would there be in Cullen to fascinate me even
if I was in the habit of being fascinated by my fellow creatures;
which I certainly am not. No, I'll own I am deeply interested.
I confess my belief is, I understand him better than anybody
else. And if you want my honest opinion, I am certain that my
 - my - h'm - influence over - sympathy for - him - call it what
you like, is all to the good. There is a psychological awareness.
...Moreover, as a companion, instinctively I find him extremely
agreeable. He stimulates some part of my mind which is less
active without him. But fascination - wide of the mark, my
dear - wide!"
  But supposing one remained unconvinced? Supposing one
still played with the idea. Wasn't it possible to see Rupert and
Archie as the python and the rabbit keeping house together?
Rupert that handsome, well-fed python with his moustaches,


his glare, his habit of uncoiling before the fire and swaying
against the mantelpiece, pipe and pouch in hand. And Archie,
soft, hunched, timid, sitting in the lesser arm-chair, there and
not there, flicking back into the darkness at a word but emerging
again at a look - with sudden wholly unexpected starts of playfulness
(instantly suppressed by the python). Of course, there
was no question of anything so crude and dreadful as the rabbit
being eaten by his housemate. Nevertheless, it was a strange
fact, after a typical evening the one looked immensely swelled,
benign and refreshed, and the other, pale, small and exhausted.
...And more often than not Rupert's final comment was -
ominous this - as he doused his whisky with soda:
  "This has been very absorbing, Archie." And Archie gasped
out, "Oh, v_e_r_y?"
  Archie Cullen was a journalist and a son of a journalist.
He had no private money, no influential connections, scarcely
any friends. His father had been one of those weak, disappointed,
unsuccessful men who see in their sons a weapon
for themselves. He would get his own back on life through
Archie. Archie would show them the stuff he - his father
was made of. Just you wait till my son comes along! This,
though highly consoling to Mr. Cullen p_e\_r_e_, was terribly poor
fun for Archie. At two and a half his infant nose was put to
the grindstone and even on Sundays it was not taken off. Then
his father took him out walking and improved the occasion
by making him spell the shop signs, count the yachts racing in
the harbour, divide them by four and multiply the result by
three.
  But the experiment was an amazing success. Archie turned
away from the distractions of life, shut his ears, folded his feet,
sat over the table with his books, and when the holidays came
he didn't like them; they made him uneasy; so he went on
reading for himself. He was a model boy. On prize-giving



days his father accompanied him to school, carried the great
wad of stiff books home for him and, flinging them on the
dining-room table, he surveyed them with an exultant smile.
My prizes! The little sacrifice stared at them, too, through his
spectacles as other little boys stared at puddings. He ought,
of course, at this juncture to have been rescued by a doting
mother who, though cowed herself, rose on the...


<T Second Violin>
  A February morning, windy, cold, with chill-looking
clouds hurrying over a pale sky and chill snowdrops
for sale in the grey streets. People look small and shrunken
as they flit by; they look scared as if they were trying to hide
inside their coats from something big and brutal. The shop
doors are closed, the awnings are furled, and the policemen at
the crossings are lead policemen. Huge empty vans shake past
with a hollow sound; and there is a smell of soot and wet
stone staircases, a raw, grimy smell....
  Flinging her small scarf over her shoulder again, clasping
her violin, Miss Bray darts along to orchestra practice. She is
conscious of her cold hands, her cold nose and her colder feet.
She can't feel her toes at all. Her feet are just little slabs of
cold, all of a piece, like the feet of china dolls. Winter is a
terrible time for thin people - terrible! Why should it hound
them down, fasten on them, worry them so? Why not, for a
change take a nip, take a snap at the fat ones who wouldn't


notice? But no! It is sleek, warm, cat-like summer that makes
the fat one's life a misery. Winter is all for bones....
  Threading her way, like a needle, in and out and along, went
Miss Bray, and she thought of nothing but the cold. She had
just come out of her kitchen, which was pleasantly snug in the
morning, with her gas-fire going for her breakfast and the
window closed. She had just drunk three large cups of really
boiling tea. Surely, they ought to have warmed her. One
always read in books of people going on their way warmed and
invigorated by even one cup. And she had had three! How
she loved her tea! She was getting fonder and fonder of it.
Stirring the cup, Miss Bray looked down. A little fond
smile parted her lips, and she breathed tenderly, "I love my
tea "
  But all the same, in spite of the books, it didn't keep her
warm. Cold! Cold! And now as she turned the corner she
took such a gulp of damp, cold air that her eyes filled. Y_i_-y_i_-y_i_,
a little dog yelped; he looked as though he'd been hurt. She
hadn't time to look round, but that high, sharp yelping soothed
her, was a comfort even. She could have made just that sound
herself.
  And here was the Academy. Miss Bray pressed with all her
might against the stiff, sulky door, squeezed through into the
vestibule hung with pallid notices and concert programmes,
and stumbled up the dusty stairs and along the passage to the
dressing-room. Through the open door there came such shrill
loud laughter, such high, indifferent voices that it sounded like
a play going on in there. It was hard to believe people were
not laughing and talking like that...on purpose. "Excuse
me - pardon - sorry," said Miss Bray, nudging her way in
and looking quickly round the dingy little room. Her two
friends had not yet come.
  The First Violins were there; a dreamy, broad-faced girl
leaned against her 'cello; two Violas sat on a bench, bent over
a music book, and the Harp, a small grey little person, who


only came occasionally, leaned against a bench and looked for
her pocket in her underskirt....
  "I've a run of three twice, ducky," said Ma, "a pair of
queens make eight, and one for his nob makes nine."
  With an awful groan Alexander, curling his little
finger high, pegged nine for Ma. And "Wait now, wait now,"
said she, and her quick short little hands snatched at the other
cards. "My crib, young man!" She spread them out, leaned
back, twitched her shawl, put her head on one side. "H'm,
not so bad! A flush of four and a pair!"
  "Betrayed! Betrayed!" moaned Alexander, bowing his dark
head over the cribbage board, "and by a woo-man." He sighed
deeply, shuffled the cards and said to Ma, "Cut for me, my
love!"
  Although, of course, he was only having his joke like all professional
young gentlemen, something in the tone in which he
said "my love!" gave Ma quite a turn. Her lips trembled as
she cut the cards, she felt a sudden pang as she watched those
long slim fingers dealing.
  Ma and Alexander were playing cribbage in the basement
kitchen of number 9 Bolton Street. It was late, it was on
eleven, and Sunday night, too - shocking! They sat at the
kitchen table that was covered with a worn art serge cloth
spotted with candle grease. On one corner of it stood three
glasses, three spoons, a saucer of sugar lumps and a bottle of
gin. The stove was still alight and the lid of the kettle had
just begun to lift, cautiously, stealthily, as though there was
someone inside who wanted to have a peep and pop back again.
On the horse-hair sofa against the wall by the door the owner
of the third glass lay asleep, gently snoring. Perhaps because
he had his back to them, perhaps because his feet poked out
from the short overcoat covering him, he looked forlorn,
pathetic and the long, fair hair covering his collar looked
forlorn and pathetic, too.



  "Well, well," said Ma, sighing as she put out two cards and
arranged the others in a fan, "such is life. I little thought when
I saw the last of you this morning that we'd be playing a game
together to-night."
  "The caprice of destiny," murmured Alexander. But, as a
matter of fact, it was no joking matter. By some infernal mischance
that morning he and Rinaldo had missed the train that
all the company travelled by. That was bad enough. But
being Sunday, there was no other train until midnight, and as
they had a full rehearsal at 10 o'clock on Monday it meant
going by that, or getting what the company called the beetroot.
But God! what a day it had been. They had left the luggage
at the station and come back to Ma's, back to Alexander's
frowsy bedroom with the bed unmade and water standing about.
Rinaldo had spent the whole day sitting on the side of the bed
swinging his leg, dropping ash on the floor and saying, "I
wonder what made us lose that train. Strange we should have
lost it. I bet the others are wondering what made us lose it,
too." And Alexander had stayed by the window gazing into
the small garden that was so black with grime even the old lean
cat who came and scraped seemed revolted by it, too. It was
only after Ma had seen the last of her Sunday visitors...


<T The Tiredness of Rosabel>
  At the corner of Oxford Circus Rosabel bought a
bunch of violets, and that was practically the reason
why she had so little tea - for a scone and a boiled egg and a cup
of cocoa at Lyons are not ample sufficiency after a hard day's
work in a millinery establishment. As she swung on to the step
of the Atlas bus, grabbed her skirt with one hand and clung to
the railing with the other, Rosabel thought she would have
sacrificed her soul for a good dinner - roast duck and green
peas, chestnut stuffing, pudding with brandy sauce - something
hot and strong and filling. She sat down next to a girl very
much her own age who was reading A_n_n_a__L_o_m_b_a_r_d_ in a cheap,
paper-covered edition, and the rain had tear-spattered the
pages. Rosabel looked out of the windows; the street was
blurred and misty, but light striking on the panes turned their
dullness to opal and silver, and the jewellers' shops seen through
this, were fairy palaces.   Her feet were horribly wet, and she
knew the bottom of her skirt and petticoat would be coated
with black, greasy mud.  There was a sickening smell of warm
humanity - it seemed to be oozing out of everybody in the bus -
and everybody had the same expression, sitting so still, staring
in front of them. How many times had she read these advertisements -
"Sapolio Saves Time, Saves Labour" - "Heinz's
Tomato Sauce" - and the inane, annoying dialogue between
doctor and judge concerning the superlative merits of "Lamplough's
Pyretic Saline." She glanced at the book which the girl
read so earnestly, mouthing the words in a way that Rosabel
detested, licking her first finger and thumb each time that she
turned the page. She could not see very clearly; it was something
about a hot, voluptuous night, a band playing, and a girl


with lovely, white shoulders. Oh, heavens! Rosabel stirred
suddenly and unfastened the two top buttons of her coat...she
felt almost stifled. Through her half-closed eyes the whole
row of people on the opposite seat seemed to resolve into one
fatuous, staring face....
  And this was her corner. She stumbled a little on her way
out and lurched against the girl next her. "I beg your pardon,"
said Rosabel, but the girl did not even look up. Rosabel saw
that she was smiling as she read.
  Westbourne Grove looked as she had always imagined
Venice to look at night, mysterious, dark, even the hansoms
were like gondolas dodging up and down, and the lights trailing
luridly - tongues of flame licking the wet street - magic fish
swimming in the Grand Canal. She was more than glad to
reach Richmond Road, but from the corner of the street until
she came to No. 26 she thought of those four flights of stairs.
Oh, why four flights! It was really criminal to expect people to
live so high up. Every house ought to have a lift, something
simple and inexpensive, or else an electric staircase like the one
at Earl's Court - but four flights! When she stood in the hall
and saw the first flight ahead of her and the stuffed albatross
head on the landing, glimmering ghost-like in the light of the
little gas jet, she almost cried. Well, they had to be faced; it
was very like bicycling up a steep hill, but there was not the
satisfaction of flying down the other side....
  Her own room at last! She closed the door, lit the gas, took
off her hat and coat, skirt, blouse, unhooked her old flannel
dressing-gown from behind the door, pulled it on, then unlaced
her boots - on consideration her stockings were not wet enough
to change. She went over to the wash-stand. The jug had not
been filled again to-day. There was just enough water to soak
the sponge, and the enamel was coming off the basin - that was
the second time she had scratched her chin.
  It was just seven o'clock. If she pulled the blind up and put
out the gas it was much more restful - Rosabel did not want to


read. So she knelt down on the floor, pillowing her arms on
the window-sill...just one little sheet of glass between her and
the great wet world outside!
  She began to think of all that had happened during the day.
Would she ever forget that awful woman in the grey mackintosh
who had wanted a trimmed motor-cap - "something purple
with something rosy each side" - or the girl who had tried on
every hat in the shop and then said she would "call in tomorrow
and decide definitely." Rosabel could not help smiling;
the excuse was worn so thin....
  But there had been one other - a girl with beautiful red hair
and a white skin and eyes the colour of that green ribbon shot
with gold they had got from Paris last week. Rosabel had
seen her electric brougham at the door; a man had come in
with her, quite a young man, and so well dressed.
  "What is it exactly that I want, Harry?" she had said, as
Rosabel took the pins out of her hat, untied her veil, and gave
her a hand-mirror.
  "You must have a black hat," he had answered, "a black
hat with a feather that goes right round it and then round your
neck and ties in a bow under your chin, and the ends tuck into
your belt - a decent-sized feather."
  The girl glanced at Rosabel laughingly.   "Have you any
hats like that?"
  They had been very hard to please; Harry would demand
the impossible, and Rosabel was almost in despair. Then she
remembered the big, untouched box upstairs.
  "Oh, one moment, Madam," she had said. "I think perhaps
I can show you something that will please you better." She had
run up, breathlessly, cut the cords, scattered the tissue paper, and
yes, there was the very hat - rather large, soft, with a great, curled
feather, and a black velvet rose, nothing else. They had been
charmed. Th girl had put it on and then handed it to Rosabel.
  "Let me see how it looks on you," she said, frowning a little,
very serious indeed.


  Rosabel turned to the mirror and placed it on her brown
hair, then faced them.
  "Oh, Harry, is'nt it adorable," the girl cried, "I must have
that!" She smiled again at Rosabel. "It suits you beautifully."
,
  A sudden, ridiculous feeling of anger has seized Rosabel,
She longed to throw the lovely, perishable thing in the girl's
face, and bent over the hat, flushing.
  "It's exquisitely finished off inside, Madam," she said. The
girl swept out to her brougham, and left Harry to pay and bring
the box with him.
  "I shall go straight home and put it on before I come out to
lunch with you," Rosabel heard her say.
  The man leant over her as she made out the bill, then, as
he counted the money into her hand - "Ever been painted?"
he said.
  "No," said Rosabel shortly, realising the swift change in his
voice, the slight tinge of insolence, of familiarity.
  "Oh, well you ought to be," said Harry. "You've got such
a damned pretty little figure."
  Rosabel did not pay the slightest attention. How handsome
he had been! ! She had thought of no one else all day; his face
fascinated her; she could see clearly his fine, straight eyebrows,
and his hair grew back from his forehead with just the slightest
suspicion of crisp curl, his laughing, disdainful mouth. She
saw again his slim hands counting the money into hers....
Rosabel suddenly pushed the hair back from her face, her
forehead was hot...if those slim hands could rest one moment
...the luck of that girl!
  Suppose they changed places. Rosabel would drive home
with him, of course they were in love with each other, but not
engaged, very nearly, and she would say - "I won't be one
moment." He would wait in the brougham while her maid took
the hat-box up the stairs, following Rosabel. Then the great,
white and pink bedroom with roses everywhere in dull silver


vases. She wold sit down before the mirror and the little
French maid would fasten her hat and find her a thin, fine veil
and another pair of white sue>de gloves - a button had come off
the gloves she had worn that morning. She had scented her
furs and gloves and handerkerchief, taken a big muff and run
downstairs. The butler opened the door, Harry was waiting,
they drove away together....T_h_a_t_ was life, thought Rosabel!
On the way to the Carlton they stopped at Gerard's, Harry
bought her great sprays of Parma violets, filled her hands with
them.
  "Oh, they are sweet!" she said, holding them against her
face.
  "It is as you always should be," said Harry, "with your
hands full of violets."
  (Rosabel realised that her knees were getting stiff; she sat
down on the floor and leant her head against the wall.) Oh, that
lunch! The table covered with flowers, a band hidden behind a
grove of palms playing music that fired her blood like wine -
the soup, and oysters, and pigeons, and creamed potatoes, and
champagne, of course, and afterwards coffee and cigarettes.
She would lean over the table fingering her glass with one hand,
talking with that charming gaiety which Harry so appreciated.
Afterwards a matine\e, something that gripped them both, and
then tea at the "Cottage."
  "Sugar? Milk? Cream?" The little homely questions
seemed to suggest a joyous intimacy. And then home again
in the dusk, and the scent of the Parma violets seemed to drench
the air with their sweetness.
  "I'll call for you at nine," he said as he left her.
  The fire had been lighted in her boudoir, the curtains drawn,
there were a great pile of letters waiting her - invitations for
the Opera, dinners, balls, a week-end on the river, a motor
tour - she glanced through them listlessly as she went upstairs
to dress. A fire in her bedroom, too, and her beautiful, shining
dress spread on the bed - white tulle over silver, silver shoes,


silver scarf, a little silver fan. Rosabel knew that she was the
most famous woman at the ball that night; men paid her
homage, a foreign Prince desired to be presented to this English
wonder. Yes, it was a voluptuous night, a band playing, and
h_e_r_ lovely white shoulders....
  But she became very tired. Harry took her home, and came
in with her for just one moment. The fire was out in the drawing-room,
but the sleepy maid waited for her in her boudoir.
She took off her cloak, dismissed the servant, and went over to
the fire-place, and stood peeling off her gloves; the firelight
shone on her hair, Harry came across the room and caught her
in his arms - "Rosabel, Rosabel, Rosabel...." Oh, the haven
of those arms, and she was very tired.
  (The real Rosabel, the girl crouched on the floor in the dark,
laughed aloud, and put her hand up to her hot mouth.)
  Of course they rode in the park next morning, the engagement
had been announced in the C_o_u_r_t_ C_i_r_c_u_l_a_r_, all the world
knew, all the world was shaking hands with her....
  They were married shortly afterwards at St. George's, Hanover
Square, and motored down to Harry's old ancestral home for the
honeymoon; the peasants in the village curtseyed to them as
they passed; under the folds of the rug he pressed her hands
convulsively. And that night she wore again her white and
silver frock. She was tired after the journey and went upstairs
to bed...quite early....
  The real Rosabel got up from the floor and undressed slowly,
folding her clothes over the back of a chair. She slipped over
her head her coarse, calico night-dress, and took the pins out
of her hair - the soft, brown flood of it fell round her, warmly.
Then she blew out the candle and groped her way into bed,
pulling the blankets and grimy "honeycomb" quilt closely
round her neck, cuddling down in the darkness....
  So she slept and dreamed, and smiled in her sleep, and once
threw out her arm to feel for something which was not there,
dreaming still.



  And the night passed. Presently the cold fingers of dawn
closed over her uncovered hand; grey light flooded the dull
room. Rosabel shivered, drew a little gasping breath, sat up.
And because her heritage was that tragic optimism, which is all
too often the only inheritance of youth, still half asleep, she
smiled, with a little nervous tremor round her mouth.


<T New Dresses>

  Mrs. Carsfield and her mother sat at the dining-room
table putting the finishing touches to some
green cashmere dresses. They were to be worn by the two
Misses Carsfield at church on the following day, with apple-green
sashes, and straw hats with ribbon tails. Mrs. Carsfield
had set her heart on it, and this being a late night for Henry
who was attending a meeting of the Political League, she and
the old mother had the dining-room to themselves and could
make a "peaceful litter" as she expressed it. The red cloth was
taken off the table - where stood the wedding-present sewing-machine,
a brown work-basket, the "material," and some torn
fashion journals. Mrs. Carsfield worked the machine, slowly
for she feared the green thread would give out, and had a sort
of tired hope that it might last longer if she was careful to use
a little at a time; the old woman sat in a rocking-chair, her skirt
turned back, and her felt-slippered feet on a hassock, tying the
machine threads and stitching some narrow lace on the necks
and cuffs. The gas jet flickered. Now and again the old woman
glanced up at the jet and said, "There's water in the pipe, Anne,
that's what's the matter," then was silent, to say again a moment
later, "There must be water in that pipe, Anne," and again,
with quite a burst of energy, "N_o_w_ there is - I'm c_e_r_t_a_i_n_ of it."
  Anne frowned at the sewing-machine. "The way mother
h_a_r_p_s_ on things - it gets frightfully on my nerves," she thought.
"And always when there's no earthly opportunity to better a
thing....I suppose it's old age - but most aggravating." Aloud
she said: "Mother, I'm having a really substantial hem in this
dress of Rose's - the child has got really leggy lately. And don't
put any lace on Helen's cuff; it will make a distinction, and


besides she's so careless about rubbing her hands on anything
grubby."
  "Oh, there's plenty," said the old woman. "I'll put it a
little higher up." And she wondered why Anne had such a
down on Helen - Henry was just the same. They seemed to
want to hurt Helen's feelings - the distinction was merely an
excuse.
  "Well," said Mrs. Carsfield, "you didn't see Helen's clothes
when I took them off to-night. Black from head to foot after
a week. And when I compared them before her eyes with
Rose's she merely shrugged, you know that habit she's got,
and began stuttering. I really shall have to see Dr. Malcolm
about her stuttering, if only to give her a good fright. I believe
it's merely an affectation she's picked up at school - that she
can help it."
  "Anne, you know she's always stuttered. You did just the
same when you were her age, she's highly strung." The old
woman took off her spectacles, breathed on them, and rubbed
them with a corner of her sewing-apron.
  "Well, the last thing in the world to do her any good is to
let her imagine t_h_a_t_," answered Anne, shaking out one of the
green frocks and pricking at the pleats with her needle. "She
is treated exactly like Rose, and the Boy hasn't a nerve. Did
you see him when I put him on the rocking-horse to-day, for
the first time? He simply gurgled with joy. He's more the
image of his father every day."
  "Yes, he certainly is a thorough Carsfield," assented the old
woman, nodding her head.
  "Now that's another thing about Helen," said Anne. "The
peculiar way she treats Boy, staring at him and frightening him
as she does. You remember when he was a baby how she used
to take away his bottle to see what he would do? Rose is
perfect with the child - but Helen..."
  The old woman put down her work on the table. A little
silence fell, and through the silence the loud ticking of the


dining-room clock. She wanted to speak her mind to Anne
once and for all about the way she and Henry were treating
Helen, ruining the child, but the ticking noise distracted her.
She could not think of the words and sat there stupidly, her
brain going t_i_c_k_, t_i_c_k_ to the dining-room clock.
  "How loudly that clock ticks," was all she said.
  "Oh, there's mother - off the subject again - giving me no
help or encouragement," thought Anne. She glanced at the
clock.
  "Mother, if you're finished that frock, would you go into
the kitchen and heat up some coffee and perhaps cut a plate of
ham. Henry will be in directly. I'm practically through with
this second frock by myself." She held it up for inspection.
"Aren't they charming? They ought to last the children a
good two years, and then I expect they'll do for school -
lengthened, and perhaps dyed."
  "I'm glad we decided on the more expensive material," said
the old woman.
  Left alone in the dining-room Anne's frown deepened and
her mouth drooped - a sharp line showed from nose to chin.
She breathed deeply and pushed back her hair. There seemed
to be no air in the room, she felt stuffed up, and it seemed so
useless to be tiring herself out with fine sewing for Helen. One
never got through with children and never had any gratitude
from them - except Rose - who was exceptional. Another
sign of old age in mother was her absurd point of view about
Helen and her "touchiness" on the subject. There was one
thing, Mrs. Carsfield said to herself. She was determined to
keep Helen apart form Boy. He had all his father's sensitiveness
to unsympathetic influences. A blessing that the girls were at
school all day!
  At last the dresses were finished and folded over the back of
the chair. She carried the sewing-machine over to the book-shelves,
spread the tablecloth, and went over to the window.
The blind was up, she could see the garden plainly: there


must be a moon about. And then she caught sight of something
shining on the garden seat. A book, yes, it must be a book,
left there to get soaked through by the dew. She went out into
the hall, put on her goloshes, gathered up her skirt, and ran
into the garden. Yes, it was a book. She picked it up carefully.
Damp already - and the cover bulging. She shrugged her
shoulders in the way her little daughter had caught from
her. In the shadowy garden that smelled of grass and rose
leaves Anne's heart hardened. Then the gate clicked and she
saw Henry striding up the front path.
  "Henry!" she called.
  "Hullo," he cried, "what on earth are you doing down
there...Moon-gazing ,Anne?" She ran forward and kissed
him.
  "Oh, look at this book," she said. "Helen's been leaving it
about again. My dear, how you smell of cigars!"
  Said Henry: "You've got to smoke a decent cigar when
you're with these other chaps. Looks so bad if you don't.
But come inside, Anne; you haven't got anything on. Let
the book go to hang! You're cold, my dear, you're shivering."
He put his arm round her shoulder. "See the moon over there,
by the chimney? Fine night. By Jove! I had the fellows
roaring to-night - I made a colossal joke. One of them said:
'Life is a game of cards," and I, without thinking, just straight
out..." Henry paused by the door and held up a finger. "I
said...well, I've forgotten the exact words, but they shouted,
my dear, simply shouted. No, I'll remember what I said in
bed to-night; you know I always do."
  "I'll take this book into the kitchen to dry on the stove-rack,"
said Anne, and she thought, as she banged the pages,
"Henry has been drinking beer again, that means indigestion
to-morrow. No use mentioning Helen to-night."
  When Henry had finished the supper he lay back in the chair,
picking his teeth, and patted his knee for Anne to come and
sit there.


"Hullo," he said, jumping her up and down, "what's the
green fandagles on the chair back? What have you and
mother been up to, eh?"
  Said Anne, airily, casting a most careless glance at the green
dresses, "Only some frocks for the children. Remnants for
Sunday."
  The old woman put the plate and cup and saucer together,
then lighted a candle.
  "I think I'll go to bed," she said cheerfully.
  "Oh, dear me, how unwise of mother," thought Anne.
"She makes Henry suspect by going away like that, as she
always does if there's any unpleasantness brewing."
  "No, don't go to bed yet, mother," cried Henry jovially.
"Let's have a look at the things." She passed him over the
dresses, faintly smiling. Henry rubbed them through his
fingers.
  "So these are the remnants, are they, Anne? Don't feel
much like the Sunday trousers my mother used to make me
out of an ironing blanket. How much did you pay for this a
yard, Anne?"
  Anne took the dresses from him and played with a button
of his waistcoat.
  "Forget the exact price, darling. Mother and I rather
skimped them, even though they were so cheap. What can
great big men bother about clothes...? Was Lumley there
to-night?"
  "Yes, he says their kid was a bit bandy-legged at just the
same age as Boy. He told me of a new kind of chair for children
that the draper has just got in - makes them sit with their legs
straight. By the way, have you got this month's draper's bill?"
  She had been waiting for that - had known it was coming.
She slipped off his knee and yawned.
  "Oh, dear me," she said, "I think I'll follow mother. Bed's
the place for me." She stared at Henry vacantly. "Bill - bill
did you say, dear? Oh, I'll look it out in the morning."



  "No, Anne, hold on." Henry got up and went over to the
cupboard where the bill file was kept. "To-morrow's no good
 - because it's Sunday. I want to get that account off my chest
before I turn in. Sit down there - in the rocking-chair - you
needn't stand!"
  She dropped into the chair and began humming, all the while
her thoughts coldly busy and her eyes fixed on her husband's
broad back as he bent over the cupboard door. He dawdled
over the finding the file.
  "He's keeping me in suspense on purpose." she thought.
"We can afford it - otherwise why should I do it? I know
our income and our expenditure. I'm not a fool. They're a
hell upon earth every month, these bills." And she thought
of her bed upstairs, yearned for it, imagining she had never
felt so tired in her life.
  "Here we are!" said Henry. He slammed the file on to the
table.
  "Draw up your chair...."
  "Clayton: Seven yards green cashmere at five shillings a
yard - thirty-five shillings." He read the item twice - then
folded the sheet over and bent towards Anne. He was flushed
and his breath smelt of beer. She knew exactly how he took
things in that mood, and she raised her eyebrows and nodded.
  "Do you mean to tell me," stormed Henry, "that lot over
there cost thirty-five shillings - that stuff you've been mucking
up for the children. Good God! Anybody would think you'd
married a millionaire. You could buy your mother a trousseau
with that money. You're making yourself a laughing-stock
for the whole town. How do you think I can buy Boy a chair
or anything else - if you chuck away my earnings like that?
Time and again you impress upon me the impossibility of
keeping Helen decent; then you go decking her out the
next moment in thirty-shillings' worth of green cashmere
..."
  On and on stormed the voice.


  'He'll have calmed down in the morning, when the beer's
worked off," thought Anne, and later, as she toiled up to bed,
"When he sees how they'll last, he'll understand...."
  A brilliant Sunday morning. Henry and Anne, quite reconciled,
sitting in the dining-room waiting for church time to the
tune of Carsfield junior, who steadily thumped the shelf of his
high chair with a gravy spoon given him from the breakfast
table by his father.
  "That beggar's got muscle," said Henry proudly. "I've
timed him by my watch. He's kept that up for five minutes
without stopping."
  "Extraordinary," said Anne, buttoning her gloves. "I think
he's had that spoon almost long enough now, dear, dear, don't you?
I'm so afraid of him putting it into his mouth."
  "Oh, I've got an eye on him." Henry stood over his small
son. "Go it, old man. Tell mother boys like to kick up a row."
  Anne kept silence. At any rate, it would keep his eye off
the children when they came down in those cashmeres. She
was still wondering if she had drummed into their minds often
enough the supreme importance of being careful and of taking
them off immediately after church before dinner, and why Helen
was fidgety when she was pulled about at all, when the door
opened and the old woman ushered them in, complete to the
straw hat with ribbon tails.
  She could not help thrilling, they looked so very superior -
Rose carrying her prayer-book in a white case embroidered
with a pink woollen cross. But she feigned indifference immediately
and the lateness of the hour. Not a word more on the
subject from Henry, even with the thirty-five shillings' worth
walking hand in hand before him all the way to church. Anne
decided that was really generous and noble of him. She looked
up at him, walking with the shoulders thrown back. How fine
he looked in that long black coat with the white silk tie just
showing! And the children looked worthy of him. She


squeezed his hand in church, conveying by that silent pressure
"It was for your sake I made the dresses; of course, you can't
understand that, but r_e_a_l_l_y_, Henry." And she fully believed it.
  On their way home the Carsfield family met Doctor Malcolm
out walking with a black dog carrying his stick in its mouth.
Doctor Malcolm stopped and asked after Boy so intelligently
that Henry invited him to dinner.
  "Come and pick a bone with us and see Boy for yourself,"
he said. And Doctor Malcolm accepted. He walked beside
Henry and shouted over his shoulder, "Helen, keep an eye on
m_y_ boy baby, will you, and see he doesn't swallow that walking-stick.
Because, if he does, a tree will grow right out of his
mouth or it will go to his tail and make it so stiff that a wag will
knock you into kingdom come!"
  "Oh, Doctor Malcolm!" laughed Helen, stooping over the
dog. "Come along, doggie, give it up, there's a good boy!"
  "Helen, your dress!" warned Anne.
  "Yes, indeed," said Doctor Malcolm. "They are looking
top-notchers to-day - the two young ladies."
  "Well, it really i_s_ Rose's colour," said Anne. "Her complexion
is so much more vivid that Helen's."
  Rose blushed. Doctor Malcolm's eyes twinkled, and he
kept a tight rein on himself from saying she looked like a
tomato in a lettuce salad.
  "That child wants taken down a peg." he decided. "Give
me Helen every time. She'll come to her own yet and lead
them just the dance they need."
  Boy was having his midday sleep when they arrived home,
and Doctor Malcolm begged that Helen might show him round
the garden. Henry, repenting already of his generosity, gladly
assented, and Anne went into the kitchen to interview the
servant girl.
  "Mumma, let me come too and taste the gravy," begged Rose.
  "Huh!" muttered Doctor Malcolm. "Good riddance."
  He established himself on the garden bench - put up his feet


and took off his hat to give the sun "a chance of growing a
second crop," he told Helen.
  She asked soberly: "Doctor Malcolm, do you really like
my dress."
  "Of course I do, my lady. Don't you?"
  "Oh yes, I'd like to be born and die in it. But it was such a
fuss - tryings on, you know, and pullings, and 'don'ts.' I
believe mother would kill me if it got hurt. I even knelt on
my petticoat all through church because of dust on the hassock."
  "Bad as that!" asked Doctor Malcolm, rolling his eyes at
Helen.
  "Oh, f_a_r_ worse," said the child, then burst into laughter
and shouted "Hellish!" dancing over the lawn.
  "Take care, they'll hear you, Helen."
  "Oh, booh! It's just dirty old cashmere - serve them right.
They can't see me if they're not here to see and so it doesn't
matter. It's only with them I feel funny."
  "Haven't you got to remove your finery before dinner?"
  "No, because you're here."
  "Oh my prophetic soul!" groaned Doctor Malcolm.
  Coffee was served in the garden. The servant girl brought
out some cane chairs and a rug for Boy. The children were
told to go away and play.
  "Leave off worrying Doctor Malcolm, Helen," said Henry.
"You mustn't be a plague to people who are not members of
your own family." Helen pouted and dragged over to the
swing for comfort. She swung high, and thought Doctor
Malcolm was a most beautiful man - and wondered if his dog
had finished the plate of bones in the back yard. Decided to
go and see. Slower she swung, then took a flying leap; her
tight skirt caught on a nail - there was a sharp, tearing sound -
quickly she glanced at the others - they had not noticed -
and then at the frock - at a hole big enough to stick her hand
through. She felt neither frightened nor sorry. "I'll go and
change it," she thought.


  "Helen, where are you going to?" called Anne.
  "Into the house for a book."
  The old woman noticed that the child held her skirt in a
peculiar way. Her petticoat string must have come untied.
But she made no remark. Once in the bedroom Helen unbuttoned
the frock, slipped out of it, and wondered what to do
next. Hide it somewhere - she glanced all round the room -
there was nowhere safe from them. Except the top of the cupboard -
but even standing on a chair she could not throw so
high - it fell back on top of her every time - the horrid, hateful
thing. Then her eyes lighted on her school satchel hanging on
the end of the bedpost. Wrap it in her school pinafore - put it
in the bottom of the bag with the pencil case on top. They'd
never look there. She returned to the garden in the every-day
dress - but forgot about the book.
  "A - ah," said Anne, smiling ironically. "What a new leaf
for Doctor Malcolm's benefit! Look, mother, Helen has
changed without being told to."
  "Come here, dear, and be done up properly." She whispered
to Helen: "Where did you leave your dress?"
  "Left it on the side of the bed. W_h_e_r_e_ I took it off," sang
Helen.
  Doctor Malcolm was talking to Henry of the advantages
derived from public school education for the sons of commercial
men, but he had his eye on the scene and, watching Helen, he
smelt a rat - smelt a Hamelin tribe of them.
  Confusion and consternation reigned. One of the green
cashmeres had disappeared - spirited off the face of the earth -
during the time that Helen took it off and the children's tea.
  "Show me the exact spot," scolded Mrs. Carsfield for the
twentieth time. "Helen, tell the truth."
  "Mumma, I s_w_e_a_r_ I left it on the floor."
  "Well, it's no good swearing if it's not there. It can't have
been stolen!"



  "I did see a very funny-looking man in a white cap walking
up and down the road and staring in the windows as I came up
to change." Sharply Anne eyed her daughter.
  "Now," she said, "I k_n_o_w_ you are telling lies."
  She turned to the old woman, in her voice something of
pride and joyous satisfaction "You hear, mother - this cock-and-bull story?"
  When they were near the end of the bed Helen blushed and
turned away from them. And now and again she wanted to
shout "I tore it, I tore it," and she fancied she had said it and
seen their faces, just as sometimes in bed she dreamed she had
got up and dressed. But as the evening wore on she grew quite
careless - glad only of one thing - people had to go to sleep
at night. Viciously she stared at the sun shining through the
window space and making a pattern of the curtain on the bare
nursery floor. And then she looked at Rose, painting a text
at the nursery table a with a whole egg-cup full of water to
herself....
  Henry visited their bedroom the last thing. She heard him
come creaking into their room and hid under the bedclothes.
But Rose betrayed her.
  "Helen's not asleep," piped Rose.
  Henry sat by the bedside pulling his moustache.
  "If it were not Sunday, Helen, I would whip you. As it is,
and I must be at the office early to-morrow, I shall give you a
sound smacking after tea in the evening....Do you hear me?"
  She grunted.
  "You love your father and mother, don't you?"
  No answer.
  Rose gave Helen a dig with her foot.
  "Well," said Henry, sighing deeply, "I suppose you love
Jesus?"
  "Rose has scratched my leg with her toe-nail," answered
Helen.
  Henry strode out of the room and flung himself on to his


own bed with his outdoor boots on the starched bolster, Anne
noticed, but he was too overcome for her to venture a protest.
The old woman was in the bedroom, too, idly combing the hairs
from Anne's brush. Henry told them the story, and was
gratified to observe Anne's tears.
  "It i_s_ Rose's turn for her toe-nails after the bath next Saturday,"
commented the old woman.
  In the middle of the night Henry dug his elbow into Mrs.
Carsfield.
  "I've got an idea." he said. "Malcolm's at the bottom of
this."
  "No...how...why...where...bottom of what?"
  "Those damned green dresses."
  "Wouldn't be surprised," she managed to articulate, thinking
"imagine his rage if I woke h_i_m_ up to tell him an idiotic thing
like that!"
  "Is Mrs. Carsfield at home'?" asked Doctor Malcolm.
  "No, sir, she's out visiting," answered the servant girl.
  "Is Mr. Carsfield anywhere about?"
  "Oh no, sir, he's never home midday."
  "Show me into the drawing-room."
  The servant girl opened the drawing-room door, cocked her
eye at the doctor's bag. She wished he would leave it in the
hall - even if she could only f_e_e_l_ the outside without opening
it....But the doctor kept it in his hand.
  The old woman sat in the drawing-room, a roll of knitting
on her lap. Her head had fallen back - her mouth was open -
she was asleep and quietly snoring. She started up at the sound
of the doctor's footsteps and straightened her cap.
  "Oh, Doctor - you d_i_d_ take me by surprise. I was dreaming
that Henry had bought Anne five little canaries. Please sit
down!"
  "No, thanks. I just popped in on the chance of catching you
alone....You see this bag?"



The old woman nodded.
  "Now, are you any good at opening bags?"
  "Well, my husband was a great traveller and once I spent a
whole night in a railway train."
  "Well, have a go at opening this one."
  The old woman knelt on the floor - her fingers trembled.
  "There's nothing startling inside?" she asked.
  "Well, it won't bite exactly," said Doctor Malcolm.
  The catch sprang open - the bag yawned like a toothless
mouth, and she saw, folded in its depth - green cashmere -
with narrow lace on the neck and sleeves.
  "Fancy that!" said the old woman mildly. "May I take it
out, Doctor?" She professed neither astonishment nor pleasure
 - and Malcolm felt disappointed.
  "Helen's dress," he said, and bending towards her, raised his
voice. "That young spark's Sunday rig-out."
  "I'm not deaf, Doctor," answered the old woamn. "Yes,
I thought it looked like it. I told Anne only this morning
it was bound to turn up somewhere." She shook the
crumpled frock and looked it over. "Things always do if
you give them time; I've noticed that so often - it's such a
blessing."
  "You know Lindsay - the postman? Gastric ulcers - called
there this morning....Saw this brought in by Lena, who'd
got it from Helen on her way to school. Said the kid fished it
out of her satchel rolled in a pinafore, and said her mother had
told her to give it away because it did not fit her. When I saw
the tear I understood yesterday's 'new leaf', as Mrs. Carsfield
put it. Was up to the dodge in a jiffy. Got the dress - bought
some stuff at Clayton's and made my siser Bertha sew it while
I had dinner. I knew what would be happening this end of the
line - and I knew you'd see Helen through for the sake of
getting one in at Henry."
  "How thoughtful of you, Doctor!" said the old woman.
"I'll tell Anne I found it under my dolman."


  "Yes, that's your ticket," said Doctor Malcolm.
  "But, of course, Helen would have forgotten the whipping by
to-morrow morning and I'd promised her a new doll..." The
old woman spoke regretfully.
  Doctor Malcolm snapped his bag together. "It's no good
talking to the old bird," he thought, "she doesn't take in half
I say. Don't seem to have got any forrader than doing Helen
out of a doll."


<T Ole Underwood>
  Down the windy hill stalked Ole Underwood. He
carried a black umbrella in one hand, in the other a
red and white spotted handkerchief knotted into a lump. He
wore a black peaked cap like a pilot; gold rings gleamed in
his ears and his little eyes snapped like two sparks. Like two
sparks they glowed in the smoulder of his bearded face. On
one side of the hill grew a forest of pines from the road right
down to the sea. On the other side short tufted grass and little
bushes of white manuka flower. The pine trees roared like
waves in their topmost branches, their stems creaked like the
timber of ships; in the windy air flew the white manuka flower.
"Ah-k!" shouted Ole Underwood, shaking his umbrella at the
wind bearing down upon him, beating him, half strangling him
with his black cape. "Ah-k!" shouted the wind a hundred
times as loud, and filled his mouth and nostrils with dust.
Something inside Ole Underwood's breast beat like a hammer.
One, two - one, two - never stopping, never changing. He
couldn't do anything. It wasn't loud. No, it didn't make a
noise - only a thud. One, two - one, two - like someone


beating on an iron in a prison, someone in a secret place - bang -
bang - bang - trying to get free. Do what he would, fumble at
his coat, throw his arms about, spit, swear, he couldn't stop the
noise. Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Ole Underwood began
to shuffle and run.
  Away below, the sea heaving against the stone wall, and the
little town just out of its reach close packed together, the
better to face the grey water. And up on the other side of the
hill the prison with high red walls. Over all bulged the grey
sky with black web-like clouds streaming.
  Ole Underwood slackened his pace as he neared the town,
and when he came to the first house he flourished his umbrella
like a herald's staff and threw out his chest, his head glancing
quickly from right to left. They were ugly little houses leading
into the town, built of wood - two windows and a door, a
stumpy veranda and a green mat of grass before. Under one
veranda yellow hens huddled out of the wind. "Shoo!"
shouted Ole Underwood, and laughed to see them fly, and
laughed again at the woman who came to the door and shook a
red, soapy fist at him. A little girl stood in another yard untwisting
some rags from a clothes-line. When she saw Ole
Underwood she let the clothes-prop fall and rushed screaming
to the door, beating it screaming "Mumma - Mumma!" That
started the hammer in Ole Underwood's heart. Mum-ma -
Mum-ma! He saw an old face with a trembling chin and
grey hair nodding out of the window as they dragged him
past. Mumma - Mum-ma! He looked up at the big red prison
perched on the hill and he pulled a face as if he wanted to cry.
  At the corner in front of the pub some carts were pulled up,
some men sat in the porch of the pub drinking and talking.
Ole Underwood wanted a drink. He slouched into the bar.
It was half full of old and young men in big coats and top-boots
with stock-whips in their hands. Behind the counter a big girl
with red hair pulled the beer handles and cheeked the men.
Ole Underwood sneaked to one side, like a cat. Nobody looked


at him, only the men looked at each other, one or two of them
nudged. The girl nodded and winked at the fellow she was
serving. He took some money out of his knotted handkerchief
and slipped it on to the counter. His hand shook. He didn't
speak. The girl took no notice; she served everybody, went
on with her talk, and then as if by accident shoved a mug
towards him. A great big jar of red pinks stood on the bar
counter. Ole Underwood stared at them as he drank and
frowned at them. Red - red - red - red! beat the hammer.
It was very warm in the bar and quiet as a pond, except for the
talk and the girl. She kept on laughing. Ha! Ha! That was
what the men like to see, for she threw back her head and her
great breasts lifted and shook to her laughter.
  In one corner sat a stranger. He pointed to Ole Underwood.
"Cracked!" said one of the men. "When he was a young
fellow, thirty years ago, a man 'ere done in 'is woman, and 'e
foun' out an' killed 'er. Got twenty years in quod up on the
'ill. Came out cracked."
  "Oo done 'er in?" asked the man.
  "Dunno. 'E dunno, nor nobody. 'E was a sailor till 'e
married 'er. Cracked!" The man spat and smeared the spittle
on the floor, shrugging his shoulders. "'E's 'armless enough."
  Ole Underwood heard; he did not turn, but he shot out an
old claw and crushed up the red pinks. "Uh-Uh! You ole
beast! Uh! You ole swine!" screamed the girl, leaning across
the counteer and banging him with a tin jug. "Get art! Get
art! Don' you never come 'ere no more!" Somebody kicked
him: he scuttled like a rat.
  He walked past the Chinamen's shops. The fruit and
vegetables were all piled up against the windows. Bits of
wooden cases, straw and old newspapers were strewn over the
pavement. A woman flounced out of a shop and slushed a
pail of slop over his feet. He peered in at the windows, at the
Chinamen sitting in little groups on old barrels playing cards.
They made him smile. He looked and looked, pressing his


face against the glass and sniggering. They sat still with their
long pigtails bound round their heads and their faces yellow as
lemons. Some of them had knives in their belts, and one old
man sat by himself on the floor plaiting his long crooked toes
together. The Chinamen didn't mind Ole Underwood. When
they saw him they nodded. He went to the door of a shop and
cautiously opened it. In rushed the wind with him, scattering
the cards. "Ya-Ya! Ya-Ya!" screamed the Chinamen, and
Ole Underwood rushed off, the hammer beating quick and
hard. Ya-Ya! He turned a corner out of sight. He thought
he heard one of the Chinks after him, and he slipped into a
timber-yard. There he lay panting....
  Close by him, under another stack, there was a heap of yellow
shavings. As  he watched them they moved and a little grey
cat unfolded herself and came out waving her tail. She trod
delicately over to Ole Underwood and rubbed against his sleeve.
The hammer in Ole Underwood's heart beat madly. It pounded
up into his throat, and then it seemed to half stop and beat
very, very faintly. "Kit! Kit! Kit!" That was what she used
to call the little cat he brought her off the ship - "Kit! Kit!
Kit!" - and stoop down with the saucer in her hands. "Ah!
my God! my Lord!" Ole Underwood sat up and took the
kitten in his arms and rocked to and fro, crushing it against his
face. It was warm and soft, and it mewed faintly. He buried
his eyes in its fur. My God! My Lord! He tucked the little
cat in his coat and stole out of the woodyard and slouched down
towards the wharves. As he came near the sea, Ole Underwood's
nostrils expanded. The mad wind smelled of tar and
ropes and slime and salt. He crossed the railway line, he crept
behind the wharf-sheds and along a little cinder path that
threaded through a patch of rank fennel to some stone drainpipes
carrying the sewage into the sea. And he stared up at the
wharves and at the ships with flags flying, and suddenly the old,
old lust swept over Ole Underwood. "I will! I will! I will!"
he muttered.


  He tore the little cat out of his coat and swung it by its tail
and flung it out to the sewer opening. The hammer beat loud
and strong. He tossed his head, he was young again. He
walked on to the wharves, past the wool-bales, past the loungers
and the loafers to the extreme end of the wharves, The sea
sucked against the wharf-poles as though it drank something
from the land. One ship was loading wool. He heard a crane
rattle and the shriek of a whistle. So he came to the little ship
lying by herself with a bit of a plank for a gangway, and no
sign of anybody - anybody at all. Ole Underwood looked once
back at the town, at the prison perched like a red bird, at the
black webby clouds trailing. Then he went up the gangway
and on to the slippery deck. He grinned, and rolled in his walk,
carrying high in his hand the red and white handkerchief. His
ship! Mine! Mine! Mine! beat the hammer. There was a
door latched open on the lee-side, labelled "State-room." He
peered in. A man lay sleeping on a bunk - his bunk - a great
big man in a seaman's coat with a long, fair beard and hair on the
red pillow. And looking down upon him from the wall there
shone her picture - his woman's picture - smiling and smiling
at the big sleeping man.


<T Spring Pictures>
  It is raining. Big soft drops splash on the people's hands
and cheeks; immense warm drops like melted stars. "Here
are roses! Here are lilies! Here are violets!" caws the old
hag in the gutter. But the lilies, bunched together in a frill of
green, looked more like faded cauliflowers. Up and down she
drags the creaking barrow. A bad, sickly smell comes from it.


Nobody wants to buy. You must walk in the middle of the
road, for there is no room on the pavement. Every single shop
brims over; every shop shows a tattered frill of soiled lace and
dirty ribbon to charm and entice you. There are tables set out
with toy cannons and soldiers and Zeppelins and photograph
frames complete with ogling beauties. There are immense
baskets of yellow straw hats piled up like pyraminds of pastry,
and strings of coloured boots and shoes so small that nobody
could wear them. One shop is full of little squares of mackintosh,
blue ones for girls and pink ones for boys with B_e\_b_e\_
printed in the middle of each....
  "Here are lilies! Here are roses! Here are pretty violets!"
warbles the old hag, bumping into another barrow. But this
barrow is still. It is heaped with lettuces. Its owner, a fat old
woman, sprawls across, fast asleep, her nose in the lettuce roots.
...Who is ever going to buy anything here...? The sellers
are women. They sit on little canvas stools, dreamy and
vacant-looking. Now and again one of them gets up and takes
a feather duster, like a smoky torch, and flicks it over a thing
or two and then sits down again. Even the old man in tangerine
spectacles with a balloon of a belly, who turns the revolting
stand of "comic" postcards round and round, cannot decide....
  Suddenly, from the empty shop at the corner a piano strikes
up, and a violin and flute join in. The windows of the shop
are scrawled over - N_e_w_ S_o_n_g_s_. F_i_r_s_t_F_l_o_o_r_.
E_n_t_r_a_n_c_e_ F_r_e_e_.
But the windows of the first floor being open, nobody bothers
to go up. They hang about grinning as the harsh voices float
out into the warm rainy air. At the doorway there stands a
lean man in a pair of burst carpet slippers. He has stuck a
feather through the broken rim of his hat; with what an air
he wears it! The feather is magnificent. It is gold epaulettes,
frogged coat, white kid gloves, gilded cane. He swaggers under
it and the voice rolls off his chest, rich and ample.
  "Come up' Come up! Here are the new songs! Each
singer is an artiste of European reputation. The orchestra is


famous and second to none. You can stay as long as you like.
It is the chance of a lifetime, and once missed never to return!"
But nobody moves. Why should they? They know all about
those girls - those famous artistes. One is dressed in cream
cashmere and one in blue. Both have dark crimped hair and
a pink rose pinned over the ear....They know all about the
pianist's button boots - the left foot - the pedal foot - burst
over the bunion on his big toe. The violinist's bitten nails, the
long, far too long cuffs of the flute player - all these things are
as old as the new songs.
  For a long time the music goes on and the proud voice
thunders. Then somebody calls down the stairs and showman,
still with his grand air, disappears. The voices cease. The
piano, the violin and the flute dribble into quiet. Only the lace
curtain gives a wavy sign of life from the first floor.
  It is raining still; it is getting dusky....Here are roses!
Here are lilies! Who will buy my violets?...
  Hope! You misery - you sentimental, faded female! Break
your last string and have done with it. I shall go mad with
your endless thrumming; my heart throbs to it and every little
pulse beats in time. It is morning. I lie in the empty bed -
the huge bed big as a field and as cold and unsheltered. Through
the shutters the sunlight comes up from the river and flows
over the ceiling in trembling waves. I hear from outside a
hammer tapping and far below in the house a door swings open
and shuts. Is this my room? Are those my clothes folded over
an arm-chair? Under the pillow, sign and symbol of a lonely
woman, ticks my watch. The bell jangles. Ah! At last! I
leap out of bed and run to the door. Play faster - faster -
Hope!
  "Your milk, Mademoiselle," says the concierge, gazing at me
severely.


  "Ah, thank you," I cry, gaily swinging the milk bottle. "No
letters for me?"
  "Nothing, Mademoiselle."
  "But the postman - he has called already?"
  "A long half-hour ago, Mademoiselle."
  Shut the door, Stand in the little passage a moment. Listen
 - listen for her hated twanging. Coax her - court her - implore
her to play just once that charming little thing for one string
only. In vain.
  Across the river, on the narrow stone path that fringes the
bank, a woman is walking. She came down the steps from the
Quay, walking slowly, one hand on her hip. It is a beautiful
evening; the sky is the colour of lilac and the river of violet
leaves. There are big bright trees along the path full of trembling
light, and the boats, dancing up and down, send heavy
curls of foam rippling almost to her feet. Now she has stopped.
Now she has turned suddenly. She is leaning up against a tree,
her hands over her face; she is crying. And now she is walking
up and down wringing her hands. Again she leans against the
tree, her back against it, her head raised and her hands clasped
as though she leaned against someone dear. Round her shoulders
she wears a little grey shawl; she covers her face with the ends
of it and rocks to and fro.
  But one cannot cry for ever, so at last she becomes serious
and quiet, patting her hair into place, smoothing her apron.
She walks a step or two. No, too soon, too soon! Again her
arms fly up - she runs back - again she is blotted against the
tall tree. Squares of gold light show in the houses; the street
lamps gleam through the new leaves; yellow fans of light
follow the dancing boats. For a moment she is a blur against
the tree, white, grey and black, melting into the stones and the
shadows. And then she is gone.


<T Carnation>
  On those hot days Eve - curious Eve - always carried
a flower. She snuffed it and snuffed it, twirled it in
her fingers, laid it against her cheek, held it to her lips, tickled
Katie's neck with it, and ended, finally, by pulling it to pieces
and eating it, petal by petal.
  "Roses are delicious, my dear Katie," she would say, standing
in the dim cloak-room, with a strange decoration of flowery hats
on the hat pegs behind her - "but carnations are simply devine!
They taste like - like - ah well!" And away her little thin
laugh flew, fluttering among those huge, strange flower heads
on the wall behind her. (But how cruel her little thin laugh
was! It had a long sharp beak and claws and two bead eyes,
thought fanciful Katie.)
  To-day it was a carnation. She brought a carnation to the
French class, a deep, deep red one, that looked as though it
had been dipped in wine and left in the dark to dry. She held
it on the desk before her, half shut her eyes and smiled.
  "Isn't it a darling?" said she. But -
  "U_n_ p_e_u_ d_e_ s_i_l_e_n_c_e_, s_'i_l_ v_o_u_s_
p_l_a_iŽ_t_," came from M. Hugo. Oh,
bother! It was too hot! Frightfully hot! Grilling simply!


     The two square windows of the French Room were open at
the bottom and the dark blinds drawn half-way down. Although
no air came in, the blind cord swung out and back and the blind
lifted. But really there was not a breath from the dazzle outside.
  Even the girls, in the dusky room, in their pale blouses, with
stiff butterfly-bow hair ribbons perched on their hair, seemed to
give off a warm, weak light, and M. Hugo's white waistcoat
gleamed like the belly of a shark.
  Some of the girls were very red in the face and some were
white. Vera Holland had pinned up her black curls a\_ l_a_ j_a_p_o_n_a_i_s_e_
with a penholder and a pink pencil; she looked charming.
Francie Owen pushed her sleeves nearly up to the shoulders,
and then she inked the little blue vein in her elbow, shut her
arm together, and then looked to see the mark it made; she
had a passion for inking herself; she always had a face drawn
on her thumb nail, with black, forked hair. Sylvia Mann took
off her collar and tie, took them off simply, and laid them on
the desk beside her, as calm as if she were going to wash her
hair in her bedroom at home. She h_a_d_ a nerve! Jennie Edwards
tore a leaf out of her notebook and wrote "Shall we ask old
Hugo-Wugo to give us a thrippenny vanilla on the way
home!!!" and passed it across to Connie Baker, who turned
absolutely purple and nearly burst out crying. All of them
lolled and gaped, staring at the round clock, which seemed to
have grown paler, too; the hands scarcely crawled.
  "U_n_ p_e_u_ d_e_ s_i_l_e_n_c_e_, s_'i_l_ v_o_u_s_
p_l_a_iŽ_t_," came from M. Hugo. He
held up a puffy hand. "Ladies, as it is so 'ot we will take no
more notes to-day, but I will read you" - and he paused and
smiled a broad, gentle smile - "a little French poetry."
  "Go - od God!" moaned Francie Owen.
  M. Hugo's smile deepened. "Well, Mees Owen, you need
not attend. You can paint yourself. You can 'ave my red ink
as well as your black one."
  How well they knew the little blue book with red edges that
he tugged out of his coat-tail pocket! It had a green silk marker


embroidered in forget-me-nots. They often giggled at it when
he handed the book round. Poor old Hugo-Wugo! He adored
reading poetry. He would begin, softly and calmly, and then
gradually his voice would swell and vibrate and gather itself
together, then it would be pleading and imploring and entreating,
and then rising, rising triumphant, until it burst into light,
as it were, and then - gradually again, it ebbed, it grew soft and
warm and calm and died down into nothingness.
  The great difficulty was, of course, if you felt at all feeble,
not to get the most awful fit of giggles. Not because it
was funny, really, but because it made you feel uncomfortable,
queer, silly, and somehow ashamed for old Hugo-Wugo. But
 - oh dear - if he was going to inflict it on them in this heat...!
  "Courage, my pet," said Eve, kissing the languid carnation.
    He began, and most of the girls fell forward, over the desks,
their heads on their arms, dead at the first shot. Only Eve and
Katie sat upright and still. Katie did not know enough French
to understand, but Eve sat listening, her eyebrows raised, her
eyes half veiled, and a smile that was like the shadow of her
cruel little laugh, like the wing shadows of that cruel little laugh
fluttering over her lips. She made a warm, white cup of her
fingers - the carnation inside. Oh, the scent! It floated across
to Katie. It was too much. Katie turned away to the dazzling
light outside the window.
  Down below, she knew, there was a cobbled courtyard with
stable buildings round it. That was why the French Room
always smelled faintly of ammonia. It wasn't unpleasant; it was
even part of the French language for Katie - something sharp
and vivid and - and - biting!
  Now she could hear a man clatter over the cobbles and the
jing-jang of the pails he carried. And now H_o_o_-h_o_r_-h_e_r_!
H_o_o_-h_o_r_-h_e_r_! as he worked the pump and a great gush of water
followed. Now he was flinging the water over something,
over the wheels of a carraige perhaps. And she saw the wheel,
propped up, clear of the ground, spinning round, flashing


scarlet and black, with great drops glancing off it. And all
the while he worked the man kept up a high, bold whistling that
skimmed over the noise of the water as a bird skims over the sea.
He went away - he came back again leading a cluttering horse.
  H_o_o_-h_o_r_-h_e_r_! H_o_o_-h_o_r_-h_e_r_! came from the pump. Now he
dashed the water over the horse's legs and then swooped down
and began brushing.
  She s_a_w_ him simply - in a faded shirt, his sleeves rolled up,
his chest bare, all splashed with water - and as he whistled, loud
and free, and as he moved, swooping and bending, Hugo-Wugo's
voice began to warm, to deepen, to gather together,
to swing, to rise - somehow or other to keep time with the
man outside (Oh, the scent of Eve's carnation!) until they
became one great rushing, rising, triumphant thing, bursting
into light, and then -
  The whole room broke into pieces.
  "Thank you, ladies," cried M. Hugo, bobbing at his high
desk, over the wreckage.
  And "Keep it, dearest," said Eve. "S_o_u_v_e_n_i_r_ t_e_n_d_r_e_," and
she popped the carnation down the front of Katie's blouse.


<T A Blaze>
  "Max, you silly devil, you'll break your neck if
you go careering down the slide that way. Drop it,
and come to the Club House with me and get some coffee."
  "I've had enough for to-day. I'm damp all through. There,
give us a cigarette, Victor, old man. When are you going
home?"
  "Not for another hour. It's fine this afternoon, and I'm
getting into decent shape. Look out, get off the track; here
come Fraµulein Winkel. Damned elegant the way she manages
her sleigh!"
  "I'm cold all through. That's the worst of this place - the
mists - it's a damp cold. Here, Forman, look after this sleigh -
and stick it somewhere so that I can get it without looking
through a hundred and fifty others to-morrow morning."
  They sat down at a small round table near the stove and
ordered coffee. Victor sprawled in his chair, patting his little
brown dog Bobo and looking, half laughingly, at Max.
  "What's the matter, my dear? Isn't the world being nice
and pretty?"
  "I want my coffee, and I want to put my feet into my pocket
 - they're like stones....Nothing to eat, thanks - the cake is
like underdone india-rubber here."


  Fuchs and Wistuba came and sat at their table. Max half
turned his back and stretched his feet out to the oven. The
three other men all began talking at once - of the weather - of
the record slide - of the fine condition of the Wald See for
skating.
  Suddenly Fuchs looked at Max, raised his eyebrows and
nodded across to Victor, who shook his head.
  "Baby doesn't feel well," he said, feeding the brown dog
with broken lumps of sugar, "and nobody's to disturb him -
I'm nurse."
  "That's the first time I've ever known him off colour," said
Wistuba. "I've always imagined he had the better part of this
world that could not be taken away from him. I think he says
his prayers to the dear Lord for having spared him being taken
home in seven basketsful to-night. It's a fool's game to risk
your all that way and leave the nation desolate."
  "Dry up," said Max. "You ought to be wheeled about on
the snow in a perambulator."
  "Oh, no offence, I hope. Don't get nasty....How's your
wife, Victor?"
  "She's not at all well. She hurt her head coming down the
slide with Max on Sunday. I told her to stay at home all day."
  "I'm sorry. Are you other fellows going back to the town
or stopping on here?"
  Fuchs and Victor said they were stopping - Max did not
answer, but sat motionless while the men paid for their coffee
and moved away. Victor came back a moment and put a hand
on his shoulder.
  "If you're going right back, my dear, I wish you'd look Elsa
up and tell her I won't be in till late. And feed with us tonight
at Limpold, will you? And take some hot grog when
you get in."
  "Thanks, old fellow, I'm all right. Going back now."
  He rose, stretched himself, buttoned on his heavy coat and
lighted another cigarette.


  From the door Victor watched him plunging through the
heavy snow - head bent - hands thrust in his pockets - he
almost appeared to be running through the heavy snow towards
the town.
  Someone came stamping up the stairs, paused at the door of
her sitting-room, and knocked.
  "Is that you, Victor?" she called.
  "No, it is I..can I come in?"
  "Of course. Why, what a Santa Claus! Hang your coat
on the landing and shake yourself over the banisters. Had a
good time?"
  The room was full of light and warmth. Elsa, in a white
velvet tea-gown, lay curled up on the sofa - a book of fashions
on her lap, a box of creams beside her.
  The curtains were not yet drawn before the windows and a
blue light shone through, and the white boughs of the trees
sprayed across.
  A woman's room - full of flowers and photographs and silk
pillows - the floor smothered in rugs - an immense tiger-skin
under the piano - just the head protruding - sleepily savage.
  "It was good enough," said Max. "Victor can't be in till late.
He told me to come up and tell you."
  He started walking up and down - tore off his gloves and
flung them on the table.
  "Don't do that, Max," said Elsa, "you get on my nerves.
And I've got a headache to-day; I'm feverish and quite flushed.
...Don't I look flushed?"
  He paused by the window and glanced at her a moment over
his shoulder.
  "No," he said; I didn't notice it."
  "Oh, you haven't looked at me properly, and I've got a new
tea-gown on, too." She pulled her skirts together and patted a
little place on the couch.


  "Come along and sit by me and tell me why you're being
naughty."
  But, standing by the window, he suddenly flung his arm
across his eyes.
  "Oh," he said, "I can't. I'm done - I'm spent - I'm
smashed."
  Silence in the room. The fashion-book fell to the floor with
a quick rustle of leaves. Elsa sat forward, her hands clasped in
her lap; a strange light shone in her eyes, a red colour stained
her mouth.
  Then she spoke very quickly.
  "Come over here and explain yourself. I don't know what
on earth you are talking about."
  "You do know - you know far better than I. You've simply
played with Victor in my presence that I may feel worse. You've
tormented me - you've led me on - offering me everything and
nothing at all. It's been a sipder-and-fly business from first
to last - and I've never for one moment been ignorant of that -
and I've never for one moment been able to withstand it."
  He turned round deliberately.
  "Do you suppose that when you asked me to pin your
flowers into your evening-gown - when you let me come into
your bedroom when Victor was out while you did your hair -
when you pretended to be a baby and let me feed you with
grapes - when you have run to me and searched in all my
pockets for a cigarette - knowing perfectly well where they were
kept - going through every pocket just the same - I knowing
too - I keeping up the farce - do you suppose that now you
have finally lighted your bonfire you are going to prevent the
whole house from burning?"
  She suddenly turned white and drew in her breath sharply.
  "Don't talk to me like that. You have no right to talk to
me like that. I am another man's wife."
  "Hum," he sneered, throwing back his head, "that's rather


late in the game, and that's been your trump card all along.
You only love Victor on the cat-and-cream principle - you,
a poor little starved kitten that he's given everything to, that
he's carried in his breast, never dreaming that those little pink
claws could tear out a man's heart."
  She stirred, looking at him with almost fear in her eyes.
  "After all" - unsteadily - "this is my room; I'll have to
ask you to go."
  But he stumbled towards her, knelt down by the couch,
burying his head in her lap, clasping his arms round her waist.
  "And I l_o_v_e_ you - I love you; the humiliation of it - I
adore you. Don't - don't - just a minute let me stay here -
just a moment in a whole life - Elsa! Elsa!"
  She leant back and pressed her head into the pillows.
  Then his muffled voice: "I feel like a savage. I want your
whole body. I want to carry you away to a cave and love you
until I kill you - you can't understand how a man feels. I kill
myself when I see you - I'm sick of my own strength that turns
in upon itself, and dies, and rises new-born like a Phoenix out
of the ashes of that horrible death. Love me just this once,
tell me a lie, s_a_y_ that you do - you are always lying."
  Instead, she pushed him away - frightened.
  "Get up," she said; "suppose the servant came in with the
tea?"
  "Oh, ye gods!" He stumbled to his feet and stood staring
down at her.
  "You're rotten to the core and so am I; But you're
heathenishly beautiful."
  The woman went over to the piano - stood there - striking
one note - her brows drawn together. Then she shrugged her
shoulders and smiled.
  "I'll make a confession. Every word you have said is true.
I can't help it. I can't help seeking admiration any more than a
cat can help going to people to be stroked. It's my nature.
I'm borne out of my time. And yet, you know, I'm not a


c_o_m_m_o_n_ woman. I like men to adore me - to flatter me - even
to make love to me - but I would never give myself to any man.
I would never let a man kiss me..even."
  "It's immeasurably worse - you've no legitimate excuse.
Why, even a prostitute has a greater sense of generosity!"
  "I know," she said, "I know perfectly well - but I can't help
the way I'm built...Are you going?"
  He put on his gloves.
  "Well," he said, "what's going to happen to us now?"
  Again she shrugged her shoulders.
  "I haven't the slightest idea. I never have - just let things
occur."
  "All alone?" cried Victor. "Has Max been here?"
  "He only stayed a moment, and wouldn't even have tea. I
sent him home to change his clothes....He was frightfully
boring."
  "You poor darling, you hair's coming down. I'll fix it,
stand still a moment... so you were bored?"
  "Um-m - frightfully....Oh, you've run a hairpin right
into your wife's head - you naughty boy!"
  She flung her arms round his neck and looked up at him, half
laughing, like a beautiful, loving child.
  "God! What a woman you are," said the man. "You
make me so infernally proud - dearest, that I..I tell you!"



