A Gallows Marriage
MilaBelle

Chapter 1

Chapter Text
 

 

Hermione couldn’t quite get past the feeling of dread that was sitting in her gut as she pretended to sip her long-cold tea. 

“Youngest recipient of the Kiss in the last 100 years.” 

She shuffled the papers on her desk for a fifth time, hoping the organisational act would somehow extend to the jumble of thoughts that were racing in her mind. 

“End of two ancient Sacred Twenty-Eight bloodlines.”

Hermione tapped the end of her quill, willing herself to forget the words from the front page of the Daily Prophet and focus on the centaur proposal that needed to be redrafted by the end of week. The centaurs needed her. Not the ancient Sacred Twenty-Eight bloodlines that probably could do with being ended. 

“Set for the 15th of June.”

A last birthday. A recollection of an imperious-looking owl carrying sleek parcels wrapped in silver kept looping in Hermione’s thoughts as she waited for the Ministry lifts on the way to the canteen. She had always prided herself on her memory, but in that moment, she wished she could forget a birthday that fell in June. And forget the boy whose birthday it was.

Not a boy anymore, really. 

Five years had passed since the war. A war that had nearly broken the British Wizarding World and nearly taken her life. Hermione still checked her wards at least twice a night before she turned out the lights of her small cottage. She kept a small unassuming beaded bag full of dry goods, extra clothes and basic potions by her Floo. She lied to herself that it was in case of a fire, as if magic couldn’t extinguish flames. She still had that word carved in her forearm. Hermione often found herself lightly touching the raised letters at night. When the world felt extra quiet and she swore she could feel the bitter cold of the Forest of Dean in winter, Hermione traced each letter slowly, reminding herself that she was safe. She had won. 

Not a boy anymore. A man of twenty-three. 

She shook her head, hoping to banish the thoughts that had been following her all day. Finishing the egg and cress sandwich she had barely touched in neat bites, she smiled at something Anthony Goldstein said. Hermione hoped he hadn’t noticed she wasn’t really listening to the story about his great Aunt’s run in with MACUSA. 

As they took the lift back to The Department of Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures on the fourth floor of the Ministry, she resolved herself to not spend another moment thinking of sad grey eyes, cold sneers or anything that resembled blonde. Hermione had done her part and written on his behalf for his trial alongside Harry and Ron (the latter rather more begrudgingly than herself). She had forgiven him for his cowardly actions as a bully in school and accepted that he had been a child led astray by the adults in his life. He had been a soldier like herself, forced to make life altering decisions too young. They were two sides of the same coin. Hermione had done her part for the war, for her community and for a former enemy. She had done enough. The weight did not need to rest on her shoulders anymore. The choice to condemn his actions had been the Wizengamot’s alone.

She had done enough. 

She repeated these words as she tested her wards once more. 

She repeated these words as she checked for her beaded bag by the Floo.

She repeated these words as the pads of her fingers traced a jagged M down the otherwise smooth skin of her forearm as she curled beneath her weathered quilt.

She had done enough.

~~

She stared at her ceiling. 

Swirling clouds, stars and a round moon shone down on her. The luminescent glow reflected a slight shine off her nails as she picked at her cuticles. A tricky little piece of magic. Hermione had spent another sleepless night trying to recreate the night sky above her bed, reminding her of a castle far off in the rolling hills of Scotland. A place that held so many memories, great and terrible. 

Now the twinkly stars and moonlight seemed to heighten her restless thoughts. 

She had promised herself to stop thinking about him. 

With shockingly little self-control, she tilted her head to the constellation whose namesake was keeping her from sleep. A cluster of seventeen stars. Over the years she had found herself lingering a moment too long on that particular constellation. Just as she sometimes lingered a moment too long on a particular boy. 

Hermione felt the liquid heat colour her cheeks as she pressed the heels of her palms into her eyes, hoping to physically wipe away her thoughts. She was alone but that did little from stopping the shame. A childhood crush. Not even that. A curiosity.

Hermione had always been a curious child. A lover of puzzles. She lived for the moment when everything just clicked into place. She couldn’t resist the call of a new mystery, piecing out the inner workings and finding out the explanation. And compared to her Muggle upbringing, a Pureblood boy felt like such a mystery. She also couldn’t explain (or care to explain) why Ron never had the same innate pull. No, it was not a crush. Hermione simply had a curiosity. It wasn’t as if she entertained these thoughts for longer than a fleeting moment. Many times, that cluster of stars deserved her ire over the years. He had been cruel, and Hermione had often been disgusted by that cruelty. 

She needed sleep. Nothing explained her unwanted trip down memory lane better than a lack of sleep. She was no longer an eleven-year-old girl opening the door to a carriage and seeing a quizzical blonde boy with grey eyes and a pointed chin staring back at her. She was no longer a fourteen-year-old girl slapping that same pointed face, now taller than her and slightly broader than he had been before. Nor was she that seventeen-year-old girl, worrying over a boy who looked so lonely and scared.

No. 

She was no longer that girl. And he had stopped being that boy on top of an astronomy tower one night in June five years ago. The same month as his birthday. The same month in which he would die. 

~~

Hermione tried to stifle a yawn rather inelegantly. She didn’t remember falling asleep but somehow sunlight woke her up alongside a rather petulant meow. Crookshanks’ demands for breakfast were sometimes the only thing that convinced her to get out of bed on the weekends. 

“Hermione, you look exhausted. Did you sleep alright?”

Hermione looked up quickly, feeling slightly dreamlike and caught in her exhaustion

“Oh I’m fine, Mrs. Weasley. That Centaur redraft just took a little out of me.” 

The lie rolled off her tongue with practiced ease. 

Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips slightly but accepted the answer while pouring a strong cup of tea and firmly handing it to Hermione. She appreciated the warmth the chipped mug brought her. It also gave her something to occupy her hands and time with as she took a long sip and looked away from the maternal and pushy brown eyes. 

Hermione was so thankful that Mrs. Weasley had remained close even when she and Ron hadn’t worked out as planned. They hadn’t broken up. You typically had to start a relationship to end it. After the war they had tried to make things work. To make the pieces fit together in a new world that didn’t involve sneaking out after hours or hiding in worn tents. They went on a few dates, shagged consistently for a few months and then on and off for some months after that. Nothing ever seemed to settle. Hermione began her rewarding but often rigorous job in The Department of Regulations and Control of Magical Creatures. Ron started his career as an Auror.

In the end they did not break, more just petered out. No explosion, just a quiet acknowledgement that the time was not quite right. Hermione often wondered if it would ever be right. But sometimes Ron would stare at her and smile in that way that made her feel loved and appreciated and she once more could picture a life with holidays at the Burrow and a wedding in a family garden in the spring. The type of family she hadn’t felt a part of since she Obliviated her parents. 

Hermione gripped the rapidly cooling mug harder, wondering if she could break the ceramic with her bare hands. 

“Hermione! How long have you been here?”

Ginny came inside, broom in hand, her long red hair sticking slightly to the perspiration on her forehead. 

“Oh, maybe an hour ago.”

“We would have stopped playing had we known you arrived! I feel like I haven’t seen you in ages.” 

Hermione smiled as her best friend’s ruddy face came into view alongside his voice. It didn’t matter those years had gone by, when she looked at the dark hair that never seemed to lay quite flat and those striking green eyes, she saw just Harry. Not Harry, Leading Auror or Harry the Husband. Just Harry, a boy with glasses that often-needed cleaning or fixing. 

“I’ve been enjoying some tea with Mrs. Weasley. You know I don’t particularly enjoy Quidditch but the weather is so nice I wouldn’t make you all stop. And I’m sorry I’ve been busy with the-“

“Centaur redraft,” the chorus of voices came out together followed by a light chuckle. Hermione smiled abashedly.

“You may have mentioned it a few times,” Ginny grinned. 

“Or all the time,” a voice boomed as Ron walked in, broom in tow. He smiled jovially, signalling he meant no harm. Hermione beamed back affectionately. Ron was rather attractive. His hair had darkened slightly into more of an auburn, and he had grown into his once lanky frame. As he grew older and became a damn good Auror, he gained a confidence he had lacked in their youth. There were moments where she was so sure she could love and be loved by Ron that it made her wonder why they hadn’t worked. Another puzzle that Hermione found herself obsessing over some nights. 

“Hey, Hermione, I’m glad you came,” Ron gave her a hug. He smelled of grass and sweat but she allowed herself to sink into the embrace for a moment. Ron gave some of the best. 

“Of course, Ronald, I wouldn’t miss it.” 

And it was true. Though Hermione was not sure she would ever be a part of the family the way Harry was even before he married Ginny, she was happy to even be near it. 

“Hermione!” 

Fatherhood had treated Bill Weasley well. His scarred face was bright with affection as he swooped Hermione in for an embrace. Standing a step behind, Fleur looked as exquisite as ever, carrying a cherubic looking toddler with strawberry blonde curls.

Fleur smiled at Hermione and gave two small kisses on her cheeks in quick succession. She then unceremoniously planted the toddler in Hermione’s arm while taking the now-cold tea out of her hands. 

“Happy Birthday, Victoire,” Hermione said slightly awkwardly to the two-year-old wearing a paper crown. The toddler smiled and proceeded to tell Hermione an elaborate and confusing tale made of mostly babbles as she walked her around. After a few minutes she wrapped her small fingers in Hermione’s curls. 

“Oh no you don’t, mon chou,” Bill deftly pulled the hair out of the chubby grips of his daughter and took her from Hermione’s arms, “Sorry, Hermione, bit of a hair pulling phase.” And with that the two were off.

Hermione heard a chuckle next to her. 

“Busy, aren’t they? I’m not sure how Mrs. Weasley handled seven of them.”

Hermione agreed with Harry. “I can see why my parents had just one.”

He nodded, “Yeah, but I also think it’s kind of nice. Always have someone to play with. Have someone to have adventures with.”

“I think we had plenty of adventures growing up.”

Harry rolled his eyes, “Yes, but I mean normal adventures like learning to fly a broom or daring each other to try different Bertie Botts Beans. Not fighting an evil Dark Lord yearly right before summer holidays.” 

The cavalier nature Harry spoke about their unconventional upbringing always managed to surprise Hermione. When she had asked how he could talk about it so easily he just responded, “We won Hermione. We made it. We’re allowed to be okay.” 

He then proceeded to explain that beating one of the strongest wizards at seventeen also brought great bragging rights and sometimes free food, and she elbowed him in the ribs. 

“You know Ginny and I are considering kids sometime in the future.”

Hermione had known that of course. Harry wanted the big family, the one that had been taken from him. The mention of it somehow startled her still. She had moments where she felt like she was in that tent in the Forest of Dean and Harry was contemplating having children. She felt an ugly burst of envy. Not that she didn’t want Harry and Ginny, two of her best friends, to have happiness. They just felt closer to it than she was. 

“Not right away of course, Ginny loves the Holyheads, and I want her to play as long as she wants to. Maybe soon, maybe not. But someday.”

Hermione swallowed down the lump in her throat.

“You’re going to be an amazing father, Harry.” Hermione knew this like she knew that Amortentia had to be made in a gold cauldron and that a unicorn represented “1,” in arithmancy.

“Thanks, Hermione,” he grinned, his cheeks pinking slightly. Then they walked outside to festivities fit for a toddler in a paper crown. 

~~

The sun was hanging low in the sky and the birthday girl was being carried sleepily up the stairs by her doting father. 

Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were chastising George who had tested a new Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes toffee on Ron that made him involuntarily quack like a duck for thirty minutes, (“Different flavours have different sounds! I need to see how long it lasts though! I’m sure it’ll wear off soon!”) Harry and Ginny were sitting next to each other on a loveseat, Ginny’s head resting on Harry’s shoulder. Ron sat in a chair, letting out rogue quacks while working on a remaining slice of cake. A slight breeze came in through an opened window. The room held the glow that only came from an unseasonably warm May evening and a day filled with friends and food. Hermione was content. 

“Did you see that article about Malfoy in the Prophet?” Harry suddenly asked. 

And with that Hermione’s contentment slipped out of the room with the last rays of spring sunlight. 

“I can’t believe they actually sentenced him to the Kiss.” He continued.

Ginny looked uncomfortable as she shifted in her seat, “I knew that it was a possibility, but I honestly thought that your testimonies would have made a bigger impact.”

Hermione did not want to talk about this. She didn’t even want to think about it but hadn’t been able to stop the nearly unending loops of thought since she had read the article. Seen the picture. 

Hermione had always held such wonder for magic. When she had read her first wizarding book and realized that the pictures could move, she had felt such glee. 

Glee was the last thing she felt staring into the empty eyes that should have been a bright grey. His face had always looked pointed and sharp, but now that gave way to gauntness. His hair, which he had been so particular about in school, hung long and limp. It reminded her of how his father had looked in his mugshot. How he had wanted to be just like his father growing up. And now he was, maybe more than ever. 

A ghost.

That had been Hermione’s first thought. He looked like a ghost. Staring straight into the camera, unflinching. No longer proud, angry, or scared. Just gone. 

Hermione did not want to talk about this. 

Harry nodded his head, “I tried to talk to Robards, but he was pretty tight lipped. Maybe because I gave the testimonial. Apparently, it was a closed Wizengamot session. That’s why they had us write our testimonies instead of sharing them at the trial. They didn’t even deliberate for more than thirty minutes. They went in knowing how it was going to end up.” 

“Is that even legal?” 

Hermione hadn’t felt the words come out of her mouth until she heard her own voice. She tried to look nonchalant while she took a bite of slightly hardened cake that she had been pushing around on her plate. 

“I think it’s in a grey area. They have been going through Death Eater trials for years at this point. Tom had a lot of followers, many who committed more heinous acts and they wanted to process them quickly. Bring up the morale of the country in the aftermath of the war. Malfoy was on house arrest for a few years and then was taken in a year ago.” 

“That doesn’t seem ethical in the slightest. That’s not how the system should work. He deserves a fair trial.”

Hermione could feel that familiar heavy beat of her heart as she became more frustrated with what she was hearing. She had never been one to stand by when she felt an injustice was taking place. A low level hum filled her ears and she could feel the angry adrenaline build. 

“I don’t think a lot of people are out there demanding fair treatment for Death Eaters. Again, the laws are a little shaky. A lot of wizarding laws are pretty old and haven’t been updated in ages. I mean I’ve read some batty laws that you wouldn’t think are still relevant but still technically are the law. Like if you own Thestrals, you need to own at least eight of them. No reason other than the creator of the law had eight and thought why not. That’s just another reason why it’s so hard to get licensed to own them-“

Hermione cut Harry off, “So a man is being sentenced to death for actions he took as a child, and it was decided in thirty minutes? That’s ridiculous!”

Now she was sitting up, having set her plate down with a loud clatter. She was properly in disbelief at this point. Hermione had thought there had been a full trial. When she was asked for a written testimony she thought it was more to do with court procedure. She didn’t feel the need to go to the trial personally because she had assumed it would be handled with the care a person’s, any person, life deserved. And she had been wrong.

Hermione hated being wrong. 

“I mean, he is guilty though.”

Everyone turned their head towards the redhead who had finally stopped making bird calls. 

“It’s not like Malfoy is innocent. We all know he was a Death Eater. We all know he let the Death Eaters into Hogwarts. And yeah, he didn’t cast the Killing Curse himself at Dumbledore, but he didn’t try to figure a way out of it either. And he continued to be a Death Eater after Dumbledore’s death.”

“He was a child! Tom was living in his home! He didn’t have many options!” Hermione clenched her fists.

“Yeah, well he had some. And don’t forget those interviews in the Prophet. He used Unforgivables during the war on people. On Muggleborns.”

Hermione swallowed hard. She had read those articles. About how a teenaged Malfoy had built his way up to using the Cruciatus Curse on captives brought to Malfoy Manor. Stories of a stone-faced Malfoy casting while Bellatrix Lestrange instructed from behind her young pupil. Hermione unconsciously scratched at her left forearm over her jumper sleeve. 

“Malfoy isn’t a good person. He made his choices. And now he is facing the consequences of those choices. People died. He chose the wrong side.”

“He didn’t have a side to choose, Ron. Would you go against your family? Your entire life?”

“Well, my family was on the right side. His entire family is bad Hermione. You just said it yourself. I know you like to defend creatures and those you think can’t defend themselves. But Malfoy is a bad creature, and you can’t fix this problem, no matter how much you want to. Not even the Brightest Witch of Her Age can save a man from the Kiss a second time.” 

Ron didn’t say it in a cruel way. Instead, he spoke softly, like he was talking to a child who had just asked if the Tooth Fairy was real. Like she needed the concept to be broken down into bite sized pieces for her to fully grasp it. 

Hermione being Hermione. Everyone would chuckle at Hermione off to save the elves. Hermione, pushing paper at the Ministry in hopes of making change, Hermione, talking about the Centaur proposal that provided safe lands for Centaurs after so much had been taken from them. Something that maybe was only important to her. And the centaurs of course, if they would ever communicate back. 

“Not everyone deserves to be saved, Hermione. And Malfoy probably wouldn’t even want someone like you doing the saving.”

Ouch.

Hermione had always been proud of her heritage, even when it had been thrown in her face. People often brought up her blood status when they felt intimidated by her, and she liked that. But the way Ron threw it out, casually, like it was common sense. Somehow that stung more. 

She knew her curiosity was not reciprocated. Even during school when she had sworn, she would catch him staring at her from the corner of her eye or when she saw a slight smirk at a witty comment she made, any acknowledgment turned those hidden moments sour. He would glare, sneer or spit vitriol. No, her curiosity was her own. Draco Malfoy was Pureblood. Hermione Granger was not. 

“Ron, stop being an arse.” Ginny glared at her older brother the way only a sister could. 

“No, Hermione, you know I didn’t mean it like that.”

“Ron, seriously, you’re still being an arse.”

“She knows I didn’t mean it like that!”

Hermione did not know that. But that easy feeling she had felt earlier when first seeing Ron was quickly replaced by a commonly occurring thought. Maybe Ron didn’t understand her as well as she hoped he would after all these years. They often felt like they were out of step with each other. 

Hermione sighed and gave a slightly tight smile, “Yeah, Ronald, of course I know you didn’t mean it like that.” 

Sometimes lying was just less exhausting.

They finished their tea in the most comfortable silence they could manage. Afterwards Ginny walked her to the Floo while Ron and Harry went to help George clean-up as penance for the toffee.

“Don’t pay attention to Ron. He is getting a lot better but Fred’s death… well it hit him hard. And he isn’t quite back from it yet. Not sure if he will ever be. Also, Malfoy has always been a point of contention with Ron. Harry had a rivalry with him, but Malfoy treated him almost like an equal. He always treated Ron like the dirt beneath his feet. That’s no excuse though for him being an arse. And I am sorry about it. I can slip him a few more of those toffees if you want.”

Hermione laughed and gave her friend a hug. 

“Thank you for always being willing to protect my honour. I know Ron didn’t mean anything cruel by what he said. I know I can run away with my ideas sometimes.”

“You have amazing ideas, Hermione. You’re a good person and you fight for what you believe in. Don’t be ashamed of that.”

Hermione felt a slight prickle behind her eyes at the sweet words from a loved friend. Words she sometimes needed more than she was willing to admit to herself, let alone anyone else.

“And I know Malfoy is a sore spot for you.”

Hermione felt taken aback. 

“Wha-what do you mean?”

Ginny gave her a wry smile.

“Hermione, you aren’t the only smart one. I saw the way you looked at him when nobody else was looking. He was fit, even if his personality was rather lacking. I’m woman enough to admit that. And I know there was nothing to act on. Sometimes school crushes don’t make sense.”

“Ginny, you married your school crush.”

“Yes, but he almost died every year and then did die that one year. If I had been smarter at the time I would have gone for a Hufflepuff. All I’m saying is you had a crush-“

“Curiosity, not a crush.”

“Fine, a curiosity, whatever. And now with the sentencing it… well it’s real. And it’s scary. And I just want to say I’m sorry. I know you. I know you’ll feel guilty for not saving him, but you did everything you could. You did enough.”

Those words repeated in her mind that night after she got home and completed her nightly ritual. Tested her wards, checked her bag, and touched her scars. 

She had done enough. 

Only now Hermione wasn’t sure she could pretend to believe it. 

Chapter 2

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione didn’t know what she was doing.

The heels of her sensible black work shoes clicked like a death march down the cold hall towards the Ministry holding cells.

She hadn’t been able to sleep well after her day spent at the Burrow though that was hardly a new occurrence. She tossed and turned until pink hues peaked through her curtains, quickly followed by an indignant, “Meoooww.”

Usually, one of her favourite private moments of the week, Sundays she enjoyed the quiet at home. This was a different form of quiet. The lack of noise didn’t choke her like it did at night, bringing her back to those dark moments from her past. There was a comfort about the daylight hours in her home, surrounded by her belongings.

This Sunday felt heavier. She couldn’t quite absorb the words as she tried to read in her favourite armchair. She found herself trailing off into thought as she hand washed the dishes from breakfast, a carryover from mornings with her father. As she followed her nightly checklist that evening, she resolved herself to talk to Harry in the morning. With a plan of action before her, albeit a shaky one, Hermione fell asleep under the stars.

~~

Harry shook his head slightly at Hermione.

“It’s very flattering that you think I have this kind of pull in the Ministry, but I don't.”

Hermione rolled her eyes. She knew for a fact that Harry had more sway than he was typically willing to admit to. Saving the world tended to open doors.

“I’m just asking for fifteen minutes. Not even that, ten.”

Hermione knew this was her only opportunity to talk to Malfoy. That terrible article in the Prophet stated that he had been brought to the Ministry from Azkaban for the trial and would remain there for only a little longer. While the sentence itself had been deliberated quickly, the bureaucracy of ending a life still took some time. A fact that Hermione was very thankful for. Once the last paper was signed, Malfoy would be sent back to Azkaban to await the Kiss.

“Please, I-I just need this.”

She hated to beg and hated the mixture of concern and curiosity in those green eyes.

“Okay. I’ll talk to Robards, see if I can do anything. I make no promises.”

Hermione felt a sigh of relief leave her body as Harry walked into the office of the Head Auror. Relief that maybe this would work and relief that Harry didn’t pry into exactly why she needed this.

They had been through so much together. School and an entire war aside, they had continued to support each other since that Final Battle. She had been there for Harry when he was left with the ruins of the only life he had known as the adversary to an evil wizard and helped him pick up the pieces. Harry had been there for Hermione when her first proposal at the Department had been rejected and deemed too “idealistic.” Hermione sat in the front row as Harry officially joined the family he had yearned for since he was a child asleep hidden in a cupboard. And Harry was there when she decided to make a long-awaited trip to Australia.

“No more than ten minutes. That’s the best I can do. It must be now though. Malfoy is set to leave in a few hours back to Azkaban. Let Goldstein know you’re taking your lunch now.”

Hermione swiftly looked up, “Robards just agreed? You were only gone for a few minutes.”

Harry grinned boyishly, “The Chosen One, Hermione, remember?”

And that’s how she found herself walking down the long hallway to the basement holding cells located deep in the underbelly of the Ministry. The chill in the air permeated through her thin office blouse. She wished she had worn trousers instead of her knee length skirt. The exposed skin of her neck and shins somehow felt like a chink in an armour she now needed.

She walked up to a small glass window with a surly looking Auror sitting behind it.

“Hermione Granger to see Draco Malfoy.”

The Auror said nothing but soon a door to her right was opening. As she walked through the frame she followed another smaller hall. A different Auror was waiting at the end.

“I’ll be needing your wand, Miss. The prisoner has been taking a magic suppressing potion here at the Ministry, but we still must take precautions. I’ll hold on to it out here in the hall.”

Hermione felt the hairs raise on the nape of neck that had nothing to do with the chilled air.

“I won’t have a way to protect myself?”

Hermione had willingly set out to visit Malfoy today although she hadn’t seen him in years; they were essentially strangers now. Even when they had known each other they hadn’t been exactly friendly.

“He’s shackled. He won’t be able to even stand while you’re in the room.”

She nodded, still filled with unease. Both at the idea of being unarmed and the idea of Malfoy being caged like a criminal.

He is a criminal, Hermione reminded herself as she handed over her wand and waited for the door to open.

And then there he was.

Hermione had taken another peek at the photograph in the Prophet before leaving for work that morning, but standing in front of him still made her gasp softly. Catching herself, she forced movement into her limbs and followed the Auror in.

“No funny business, Death Eater. I’m right outside the door. Make the wrong move and I’ll be in here in a flash. And it won’t be pretty.”

Hermione felt indignation at the threat, but the Auror quickly walked out and shut the door behind him with a heavy click.

And then they were alone.

Malfoy sat stiffly in a chair, a table in front of him. Opposite the table sat another unoccupied chair where Hermione slowly seated herself. Now she had unfettered access to look at him.

As she sat she could tell just how tall Malfoy had become. Maybe he had been this tall that night in the Manor or at the Battle of Hogwarts, but Hermione felt shocked by it now. His shoulders were broad like she had remembered but the sharp shape suggested bones jutted through the thin jumpsuit he wore. He sat completely straight, remnants of the long-held comportment of a Pureblood heir. Much like the photograph had shown, his face was gaunt. Blonde stubble shadowed his chin and jaw but were unable to hide the hollows where round cheeks of childhood used to be. Framing his face were locks of a shocking white. Hermione wondered if they had washed his hair for the trial because it looked softer and fuller than it had in the Prophet. Still, clumps of hair peeked through that alluded to matting near the base of his head.

Hermione shivered in the small room. She wondered if he was cold. His body fat couldn’t have been keeping him warm and the thin material of his clothes provided no additional warmth. But if he was cold, he gave no indication.

As Hermione quietly made her observations, Malfoy just… sat. His grey eyes looked flat, and he made no facial expressions to signal frustration at her staring.

Nine minutes.

“Hello, Malfoy.”

Silence.

“How have you been?” Hermione wanted to kick herself. He was sitting in a cell, shackled and waiting for his execution. Of course he wasn’t doing well. Still no response came.

“Maybe you don’t remember me?” Hermione hadn’t thought of this before the meeting, but the lack of reaction made her wonder. Five years had passed after all. Warmth started to build in her cheeks. Heat she would have been thankful for a few minutes ago but now wished would go away.

This got a reaction. The briefest roll of his eyes and slight sigh.

“Of course I remember you. I’m shackled, not blindfolded.” Grey eyes moved slowly, almost leisurely down her form to where the table cut her off and then back up. “We only went to school together for years. We saw each other almost daily. Not to mention you saved the world.”

“I’ve even been to your house.”

Hermione bit her tongue at the bitter words that came out unbidden. Eyes that had almost felt alive a moment ago dulled back to a stone grey.

“Yes. You’ve even been to my house. Which begs me to ask the question, why are you here?”

Hermione knew this was coming. Why was she here?

Six minutes.

“I gave a testimony. A written testimony for your trial. I shared that I believed you had already paid for your actions in the war and shouldn’t face further punishment. I would have demanded that I read that statement myself if I realised they were going to have a farce of a trial.”

Malfoy tsked softly, eyes stoney.

“Taking up a new cause, are we, Granger? The centaurs are no longer riveting enough for you?”

She was astonished for a moment that he knew of her focus on centaurs in the Ministry.

“I was on house arrest for the first four years but still received the paper. The Golden Trio often graced the covers. You’ve done a lot of work for creatures. Work that the wizarding world and even the creatures themselves often didn’t appreciate, much less ask for.”

“Archaic systems deserve to be dismantled.”

“And wayward Death Eaters deserve to be saved? Is that it?”

“You were a child, Malfoy. Are you saying you were on the same level as Rowle? The Carrows? Your aunt?”

Hermione touched her left arm absentmindedly, a nervous tic at this point. Grey eyes followed the movement closely and she dropped her hands to the tabletop.

“You don’t deserve the Kiss.”

“Don’t presume to know what I deserve or what I have done. You don’t know me. You knew an arrogant boy and then you knew a coward. Both are gone.”

“Surely something can be done, this isn’t right! It’s barely even legal! You deserve a fair trial if nothing else!”

Malfoy sighed, as if the conversation was about paperwork that needed to be completed by the end of the day and not his imminent end.

“Go focus on bargaining for fair wages and holidays for house elves or designating safe lands for centaurs. This cause doesn’t need your help. It’s settled.”

“Wouldn’t even want someone like you doing the saving.”

The words made Hermione dig her nails in her palm.

Three minutes.

Her time was running out and Malfoy wasn’t even interested in her help.

“Anyways, what would the world think if the Golden Girl stooped so low as to help Death Eater scum?”

“It’s a ridiculous moniker, and I don’t give a damn what the world thinks.”

Malfoy let out a short chuckle as the side of his mouth quirked into a smile. For a split-second Hermione was transported back to the greenhouses at Hogwarts when she had spotted Malfoy joking with Pansy Parkinson and Blaise Zabini during an Herbology lesson. She had complained out loud about classroom disruptions but secretly had felt a pang of jealousy at the ease he interacted with his friends with. The way he talked with them, joked with them in stark contrast with the way he addressed her.

“No, I suppose you never did care what people thought of you. Merlin, always shooting your hand up in the air, always telling people when they were doing wand motions incorrectly.”

“Helpful critiques,” she muttered while looking away.

He raised a brow but kept talking, “I have to say I usually found it annoying as shite, but I also envied you a little.”

Hermione felt like she must have misheard.

“Alright, perhaps envy was too strong a word. Curious, maybe? I was always curious what it would be like to go to Hogwarts without any expectations. Expectations about what House you would be in, who you would associate with, what you would be when you graduated. You came into the Wizarding world and didn’t have to answer to anyone.”

“I was also targeted and threatened for that very same thing.”

“But you always knew who you were. And you were never ashamed. I admired that.”

Malfoy looked at the door as it began to open.

“Time’s up, Granger. Thanks for the lovely chat. Not much of that in Azkaban. But now it’s time for you to accept my fate. I have. You might be the most brilliant Muggleborn this country has ever seen but I doubt even you can save a man from the Kiss.”

With that she was led out of the small room.

In a daze she pocketed her wand and waited for the guarded door that would lead her to the outer hall to open.

“No, I don’t care if I’m not on the list! I demand to see him!”

Hermione looked up at the voice that was arguing with the Auror behind the glass pane. He had thick curly brown hair and green eyes framed by equally thick lashes. He also looked very familiar.

When the familiar face glanced at her he stopped his tirade.

“You.”

He turned to face her fully now.

“Did you just see Draco?”

Hermione was trying to remember the name of the tall man but couldn’t quite place it.

“I did.” There was no use in hiding it. Who else was staying in the most heavily guarded blocks of the Ministry holding cells?

“Are you here to gloat?”

Hermione furrowed her brows.

“Here to rub it in his face that he lost?”

Hermione shook her head, feeling the stirrings of anger. “I would never gloat about a man being unfairly sentenced to death.”

The Auror behind the glass scoffed but stopped when the green-eyed man cut him with a sharp glare. “Then why are you here?”

“I’m not entirely sure.” Again, Hermione decided to go with the truth.

The man seemed to ponder her response.

“You aren’t sure why you came to visit a Death Eater?”

“I supposed I wanted to see if I could do something. Anything, really. I’m not even sure what, but I wanted to talk to him. He seemed uninterested in my help.”

The man sighed and suddenly looked much heavier, “Yeah, we are in a bit of a, ‘I deserve all this shit,’ phase right now. I’m surprised he agreed to even see you. He apparently turned down seeing me. I guess it is you though,” he muttered the last sentence.

It was Hermione’s turn to look perplexed.

The man smiled tightly and proceeded, “Well if you could figure out something soon, that would be much appreciated. Defender of the weak and all. We are on a bit of a tight schedule though. Reach out to me if need be,” and with that the man handed her a crisp card and walked through the door on the right that had just opened.

“Finally, that bloody idiot has come to his senses,” she heard the man say as the door shut behind him.

Hermione stared down at the card in her hand.

Theodore Nott.

Dealer of Antiquities and Rare Artefacts.

Hermione immediately remembered a soft-spoken brown-haired boy with a green tie sitting next to Malfoy at breakfast. Theodore had been a quiet Slytherin. Rarely spoke in class but received good marks and never joined in when his Housemates threw nasty words at her hair or teeth or blood. He had grown much as one did in five years. Taller, broader and louder.

Hermione slipped the card into her pocket and made her way down the chilled hallway back up towards daylight.

As she entered the lift to the fourth floor (hoping she still had some crisps in her desk drawer since she had skipped lunch) she thought about the conversations that had just taken place.

Firstly, Draco Malfoy had been curious about her in school. She decided quickly not to linger on that too much. He had also referred to her as a Muggleborn, not a Mudblood. She didn’t know why it felt important but it did.

Secondly, maybe she had made a new ally in this fight. A fight she might have already been a part of before even talking to Malfoy.

And lastly, she was tired of wizards telling her she couldn’t save a man from the Kiss. She had done it before. Sure, she had had the help of a Time Turner and a hippogriff then, but she was Hermione Granger. Golden Girl. Brightest Witch of her Age. She had fought a war and won as a child.

If she was being honest with herself, Hermione felt excited.

Notes:

After some great comments and gentle bullying from my book club, I have decided to release a few more chapters this week and then update weekly on Wednesday and Sunday. Please enjoy!

I also post sneak peeks, edits and chapter announcements on my TikTok @milabelle13

Written on a cracked iPhone. Proceed with caution.

All the love and thanks to Rompeprop for your ideas and being my beta!

I don’t own shit <3

Brought to you unexpectedly by Nair?? (Don’t sue me.)
Chapter 3

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
 

Hermione loved to learn. This was common knowledge to those who spent any amount of time around her. Having gained her adoration for written words at a young age, she cherished the moments bent over a scroll or a tome. It brought her back to calm mornings in the empty Hogwarts library.

Well, nearly empty.

Hermione often caught glints of white hair through the stacks that surrounded the hidden table she favoured. They never broke the unspoken truce that kept them from throwing out snide remarks and barbs. Something they were equally prone to.

Her work allowed her access to the Ministry’s records. Though technically not meant for personal use. Hermione absolved her conscience by promising to check a record on centaur and wizard interactions from 1752 that she thought might be helpful for a new proposal. At least, that’s what she had told Anthony when he had inquired about what she needed from Records yet again that week. He was smart as a whip and committed to the fair treatment of creatures (though what he considered fair sometimes differed from Hermione) but his observational skills were tiring.

Hermione was once again nestled between stacks of books at another hidden table sounded by scrolls and tomes. And she had found nothing.

She had poured over law books and found nothing. Harry had been right; the wizarding world was as behind in laws as it was in writing instruments and electricity. Perhaps more so. Hermione had always suspected as much with her work but had assumed the antiquity of the law pertained mostly to creatures. That was not the case. The Wizengamot was ancient and clung to old traditions. This included rarely overturning laws without a very good fight. Witches were technically not allowed to fly on Tuesdays apparently, which was preposterous. And it was illegal to Apparate the third Friday of every third month, fully ridiculous. Hermione also found that closed trials were in fact, legal. It had been created for war times when trials of dangerous witches and wizards needed to be completed quickly. It made more sense when the threat of exposure was greater and war was more common in the past.

Hermione felt her gut sink. She had been hoping to prove that the court had acted specifically to target Malfoy, a member of a well-known family of Death Eaters. She massaged her temples, feeling the beginnings of a headache. It was already the last day of May. Malfoy would be turning twenty-three in a few days and then Kissed a few days after that.

For a moment Hermione was struck with the nearly crippling fear that she would not be able to stop it. This had been happening more every day spent amongst old pages of parchment. She had started with a hopefulness that went hand in hand with a new project, but as time passed with little to show for it, she couldn’t help but worry. The nerves were beginning to manifest in even darker circles under her eyes and a queasy stomach. She had never done well with failure. Having been raised being told she was gifted, anything that made her feel like she wasn’t living up to those expectations created a sense of dread in her bones. Who was she if not the Brightest Witch of Her Age?

Who was she?

That question had seemed so simple as a child. She had been a Gryffindor, a student, and a witch. The war had been horrifying but had given her a sense of purpose. She had been a Muggleborn, a soldier and a member of the Order.

She had been a daughter.

The aftermath of the war had left Hermione adrift. While the lives of her friends seemed to expand and grow, she often wondered where she fit in. She was a Ministry employee but hadn’t made the far-reaching change she had envisioned. She was a friend of the Weasley clan but wasn’t the family member she had dreamed of being in her four-poster bed in school.

Hermione tried to remind herself to stop making Malfoy’s case personal as she wrapped her thick hair into a bun, using her wand to hold the mass up. Malfoy was not a friend. He hadn’t even been a classmate for years. She was simply trying to right a wrong.

It was harder to believe at night wrapped in her covers. Only then did she allow herself to think about how saving Malfoy felt like getting a piece of control back somehow. Hermione would never say it out loud. Never admit to feeling out of control in the first place.

The Golden Girl didn’t lose control.

~~

“Harry, you’re an Auror, you’re supposed to have some knowledge of the law.”

“Yes Hermione, I have knowledge of the law. Relevant laws. Like pertaining to back alley Nundu breeding or illegal underground duels. Despite what you may have heard, I’m good at my job. I still don’t know how to break someone out of Azkaban or a last-minute law to stop a death sentence.”

“Breaking him out of Azkaban was a joke.”

“No, it wasn’t and we both know it. You’re ruthless enough to do it. Smart enough to figure it out. Please don't, though, I don’t want to arrest you.”

“Like I’d let myself get caught.”

Harry chuckled as he continued to eat his lunch. Only a few employees sat at the tables nearby, happy to ignore the world around them while they were not on the clock. Harry’s face grew more serious as he wiped crumbles from his mouth.

“I’m worried about you, Hermione.”

Hermione hated this conversation. She had heard it a few times over the years. When she had accidentally thrown up a Protego in Diagon Alley when a child had set off a firecracker. When Ginny had stayed over for her Hens night and noticed Hermione’s nightly checklist. When Hermione didn’t sleep for three days finishing final adjustments on a House Elf welfare act.

When she had refused to go back to Australia.

“I know you care about making change but aren’t you taking it a bit far? I don’t agree with the sentencing and I’m trying to help where I can, but you don’t look so good. You pick at your food. Are you even sleeping?” Harry inquired.

Hermione took a large bite of her sandwich to prove a point, but the taste of the eggs seemed to make her stomach clench up. She was a mixture of touched and annoyed that he seemed to have noticed. While a diligent friend, they had drifted apart. Well, Harry had drifted, and Hermione had let him.

“Harry, I’m fine. I’m an adult woman and while I may forget a meal here and there, I do know how to care for myself. I cared for you just fine when we were on the run.”

“Yeah, but we aren’t on the run. We aren’t at war anymore.”

Hermione rolled her eyes, “Of course I know that.”

He looked somber, “Do you?”

Now she was angry.

“I know you want children soon but how about we drop the concerned father act? I don’t need it, nor do I want it.”

With that she grabbed her tray and walked out of the canteen.

~~

As Hermione sat at her desk and attempted to focus on research for protecting breeding ground for selkies, a paper memo came floating down. It rested on the metal canteen tray she had accidentally brought all the way upstairs in her rage (maybe she could keep it, the shame of taking it back seemed too great).

“I’m sorry for being a git. I don’t know about old laws, but I know someone who might. Here’s his information.”

Harry

Attached to the folded slip was a small rectangular card. A duplicate of the card that sat in her desk drawer.

Theodore Nott.

Dealer of Antiquities and Rare Artefacts.

Hermione smiled at the messy scrawl on the memo and dipped her quill into a pot of ink to reply her thanks. She also remembered to add a small suggestion for Aurors to receive more comprehensive training on the humane treatment of inmates.

~~

“I won’t lie, I didn’t think you would reach out. Don’t get me wrong, I’m happy you did.”

Hermione sat in a prim parlor room that Saturday located somewhere in Nott Manor. She had only ever been in one other estate of the same scale and was doing her best to not panic. She attempted to slow her breathing and gain some composure, hiding her discomfort behind a small sip of tea.

“I wasn’t sure I was planning on it. I’ve been doing some research on my own but haven’t been able to find very much in the Ministry Records. Their accounts are quite vast. I’m not even sure where to start. I was pointed in your direction.”

“Ah, Potter vouched for me, did he?”

“No,” Hermione’s response was too quick. She hadn’t done anything illegal in her research but still didn’t want to put her friend in a precarious position. Nott must have been able to sense this. He smirked but let it go.

“I’ve worked with the Auror department in the past. I lent them my expertise on dark artifacts for a few cases. I’ve also helped them recover a few lost manuscripts. I enjoy history, finding difficult to acquire items and I like to collect. That’s most likely why I was suggested.”

“What makes you such an expert?”

He leaned back in his seat and sat his elbows on the armrest of the wingback.

“Lots of money and lots of time. It’s a common interest in the old Pureblood families. Hoarding treasure.”

“I thought the Ministry seized most of the dark items from… certain families after the war?”

Hermione had done her research on Theodore Nott. She had remembered him correctly, he had been a Slytherin in her year. Heir of the Nott family, member of the Sacred Twenty-Eight. Son of Tiberius Nott, well known Death Eater. Nott Sr. had been quickly tried after the Battle for his war crimes. Torture, rape and murder being but a few. With no other siblings and a mother mysteriously deceased years earlier, this had left young Theodore the sole inheritor of the Nott Estate. He had been taken in and interviewed postwar but without a Dark Mark and having been still at Hogwarts, had been quickly released. An unfortunate son of a monstrous man.

He smirked, “Can’t seize what you can’t find.”

Hermione raised a brow and held his green stare until he broke into a full grin.

“I’ve gained some trust with the Aurors for the work I’ve provided. They allow me to keep some… unsavory items but I do report them. I also have the odd search every so often to make sure I don’t have anything too nasty. I’m not above the law Miss Granger, I can assure you.”

Hermione wasn’t sure she felt very assured but dropped the subject, moving towards what she was there for.

“I want to help Malfoy but I’m not sure how to. I can’t just do nothing though. I was so sure the trial was a scam to specifically target him, but apparently the wizarding world really is just that behind. Even if it is legal, I’m sure the Wizengamot went in knowing they were going to sentence him. For a lack of a better term, this was a witch-hunt.”

Nott’s eyes turned steely, “I attempted to speak to some of the members of the Wizengamot. There was no hesitation in the sentence. When I talked with Augustus Codsworth he told me Draco got a fitting sentence for a Malfoy. Like father, like son.” He spat out the last sentence, gripping the armrests.

“Are you close friends with Malfoy?”

“Not friends, brothers.”

Hermione felt uncomfortable at the heavy silence that took over the room. She began to pick at the bruised cuticles of her left hand. Suddenly, Nott’s rakish charm gave way to a tired man, scared for his friend. His brother.

“Nott, I’m trying, I really am. But I can’t seem to find anything in the Records. If it’s not there, I’m not sure anything exists.”

“It wouldn’t be there. Their archives aren’t complete.”

“What do you mean?”

“Manuscripts have been removed over the years. The Wizengamot does not change laws very readily. A sneaky workaround is to archive some of the older, more disagreeable history and law books in a hidden part of the Ministry. Wouldn’t want them to get into the wrong hands.”

“So, the information is just hidden away? Instead of changing an outdated system?” Her frustration must have been clear. Nott stared at her for a moment.

“You really want to help? Even though Draco did some of those terrible things? Even though he was awful to you?”

Hermione paused for a brief moment and stopped touching her raw nailbed, “I forgave him a long time ago for what he did to me. Malfoy was on house arrest for four years, secluded away from most of society. He has spent a year in Azkaban. You saw how he looked. Yes, he committed crimes, but he has paid for those crimes. The Wizengamot aren't interested in justice, they want blood. I know some Death Eaters received the Kiss and they deserved it,” she looked away from Nott, thinking about his father. Green eyes stared at her steadily, “but some received shorter sentences or life in Azkaban. Their punishment matched the crimes. Malfoy’s doesn’t. I fought in a war because I believed people deserved to be treated fairly. That includes Malfoy.”

Nott didn't say anything for a moment.

“Theo.” he said after a moment.

Hermione blinked at him.

“My friends call me Theo. I think you and I are going to become friends. So, you should call me Theo.”

She noted how relieved he suddenly looked.

“Well, if I’m to call you Theo, you should probably call me Hermione.”

She reached her hand out towards him. She was curious if he would shake it or if his Pureblood morals would stop him from touching a Mudblood. Without hesitation he grasped her hand and gave it a firm shake, passing the unspoken test.

“I’ll continue my search as well. I’ve been looking through my collection but haven’t found much. I’ve reached out to some of my connections. There are a few old magical low manuscripts that I think could be helpful. Old laws, 17th and 18th century.”

“That old? Surely laws have changed since then?”

“Our world holds on to old customs. I’m hoping we can exploit that.”

~~

It had been three days since Hermione had met with Theo and time was moving far too quickly for her liking. Malfoy’s birthday had passed, and Hermione found herself wondering if Theo had been able to see him. If he was even allowed visitors.

A birthday spent in a stone room, alone.

Growing up with few friends, she typically spent her birthdays with her parents before she received her school letter. She never minded it though. Her father made her flapjacks every year. Then they would go to a museum or a show together. Afterwards they never failed to take her to a bookshop where she was allowed to buy whatever she could hold. She had gotten good at stacking books, stuffing them under her arms, once even using her knees to hold a copy of Pride and Prejudice. It always made her parents laugh but they never complained. In the evenings they would sit together, full of cake and tea, and take turns reading passages from one of her new acquisitions. Giggling as they recited the words with funny voices and dramatic hand gestures.

That first year at Hogwarts had been her first birthday without them. The first birthday she was alone. She hadn’t made any friends that September. Hermione woke up without the sweet smell of syrup. Instead of a museum, she went to Charms and Transfiguration. Instead of stacking up new books, she stacked her textbooks in her arms after Peeves threw her satchel in a toilet. And instead giggling while her father acted out books, she sat in the Library alone.

Well, almost alone.

A blonde boy who sneered when she answered questions in class also sat in the Library. Hermione had been terrified that he would come to her table and make another comment about her teeth like he had the week before. He merely glanced at her for a moment, gave a small nod, and then continued to read. Somehow his quiet presence in the library helped Hermione not feel so alone. Not so far from home.

“Meoooww,” Hermione was pulled out of her daydreams.

“Alright Crooksy, I’m up, I’m up.”

Hermione fed the orange beast and turned on the shower. After she stripped, she stepped into the warm sprays and began her head-to-toe cleanse. Her skull was starting to ache daily and massaging her scalp under the water helped to soothe the tension. The familiar scent of her shampoo grounded her. When she was finished, she stepped out wrapped in a thick towel. Steam had built up on the mirror above the sink. Hermione wiped away the condensation and looked at the reflection.

Staring back was a young woman. At nearly twenty-four, childhood features were giving way to womanly attributes. Long brown hair that lightened in the sun hung thick around her shoulders, water weighing down the strands that often had a life of their own. Hermione had finally learned to care for her hair, learned what helped morph the frizz into supple curls. It had taken her longer than she cared to admit, but Hermione was diligent with her education. A feature she had once been so embarrassed about was now one of her favourites. Under her hair sat two thick brows that framed her brown eyes. She often wished she had green like Harry, or blue like Ron or a chocolate brown like Ginny. She had none of those, just brown. Under those eyes, heavy dark circles showed how sleep had abandoned her. Her cheeks were sharper than they had been in school which helped her neck appear longer. She had thankfully gained back the weight she had lost while on the run. While her breasts were not quite as full as she wanted, her hips wider than she hoped and her stomach protruding in a way that made her want to suck in when in a bathing suit, her features were distinctly womanly, which she liked.

She grabbed her wand from next to the tap and cast beauty spells that covered the dark circles, darkened her lashes, and gave her cheeks a pink glow. These small wand movements always made her heart hurt.

Lavender had made her learn them after reading an article in Witch Weekly. Hermione had brushed off the necessity (she took herself far too seriously in school) but Lavender had insisted she at least know them in case she ever wanted to “embrace her inner goddess.” Somehow the act made her feel a little closer to her lost friend. She rubbed a bit of cream between her palms and then ran it through her hair and cast a drying charm (but never with heat, it made her curls frizz) and quickly dressed.

Twenty minutes later Hermione was walking off the lift towards her desk. She was determined to get as much work done this morning before going to the Records during lunch to research for Malfoy once more. She really did feel terrible about not putting all of her efforts into her Ministry work but promised to double down as soon as she had found out what to do about the Kiss.

“Good morning, Hermione!”

Hermione sighed quietly before replacing her frown with a friendly grin.

“Good morning Anthony, how are you today?”

“Oh, I’m doing great. I was able to schedule a meeting with Filius Hodge about the Grindylow relocation to Loch Lomond.”

Hermione was happy that Anthony and the Grindylows had gotten such an important meeting with a Wizengamot member but also a little envious. She had tried to arrange a meeting when passing House Elf compensation acts as well as her recent Centaur project but had always been turned down. His secretary typically claimed his schedule was full or he was out of the office that day. Hermione suspected that long standing wizarding traditions also went hand in hand with bigoted beliefs about Muggleborns and women.

She was applauded for her acts in the war, but Hermione still recognized that she was not treated the same as Harry or Ron. While people were often impressed with Hermione, it came with the catch of it being despite her “uncommon upbringing.” While her superiors and coworkers were never outright prejudiced, they often othered her by constantly bringing up her Muggle heritage. Of course, Hermione could never call them out directly. She had tried that, and it usually left people looking shocked, affronted and then muttering about her being an insufferable shrew. She didn’t mind the name calling but networking helped make changes in their world. She had to play the game in order to win it.

“That’s wonderful Anthony. I hope it goes well.” Hermione began to walk around the tall wizard, but he took a quick sidestep, not quite blocking her but encroaching on her personal space.

“I was actually wondering, Hermione, what you were doing this weekend?”

“Oh, I’m actually going to be visiting my parents this weekend,” she lied. His cheeks turned pink as he nodded.

“Oh nice, have fun.”

She smiled and squeezed past him.

“How about tonight?”

Hermione froze. She couldn’t believe Anthony was being so persistent. He had mentioned outings before but had never pushed. She was about to lie once more when she heard a door slam.

“Hermione!” Theo walked quickly, brushing past Anthony without even a nod. “Hermione, I need to talk to you immediately.” He was almost bouncing in his eagerness, already looking over her head, searching for her office.

Hermione’s eyes flickered to Goldstein and Theo whipped his head to the flabbergasted looking wizard.

“I apologise, I must steal dear Hermione. Important creature affairs, you do understand.”

Hermione almost felt dizzy from the switch between vibrating child to collected heir. Cool confidence now oozed off the man next to her as he gave Anthony a debonair grin.

“Oh. Yeah. Of course. See you later Hermione and…”

“Theodore Nott. Lovely to meet you, but we really must be going now.”

Anthony seemed to recognise the name and nodded quickly before walking away.

“I would say that was rather rude and slightly presumptuous of you but I’m too glad for your timing.”

“Feel free to chastise me later as long as we start walking to your office right now.”

“Well, I don’t have an office, just a corner cubicle. There's a meeting room though that should be empty.”

“What? No office? But you’re the Golden Girl, the saviour of the weak, defender of good.”

Hermione blushed, “I’m just Hermione Granger, Ministry worker here.”

“Harry practically owns a wing of the Ministry. Even Weasley has his own office. I’ve seen it when I helped on a case, and I had to pick my jaw up off the floor.”

Hermione glared as she pushed into the meeting room, “Ron is a hard worker and deserved the promotion that got him that office.” She closed the door behind Theo and watched as he locked and silenced the room.

“I never said that Weasley didn’t earn it, just that you work harder than most people. Where’s your promotion?”

She could feel how flushed her face was.

“Did you really come all this way to criticize my career strategy? If so, I can say this little meeting is over,” she snapped, crossing her arms.

He raised his hands in deference, “I’m sorry, I’m sorry. You’re right. I have a nasty little habit of prying. Please don’t leave, I really do have important news.”

She sighed and pulled out a chair to sit in, motioning for Theo to do the same. He waved his hand at her and began to lightly pace.

“Nott, you’re beginning to worry me.”

“I told you, it’s Theo.”

“Alright Theo, start talking now please.”

He opened his mouth but shut it quickly, seemingly trying to figure out the best way to phrase what he wanted to say. He tried again.

“Remember how I told you that I was hopeful about some old law manuscripts?”

Hermione nodded but said nothing, hoping to encourage him to keep talking.

“Right, so I found them. And like I thought, I found something.”

“Something?”

“A way to save Draco.”

Hermione’s heart began to beat faster. This was what they had been looking for. Why Theo had looked so excited when he had first arrived. Why did he look sallow now?

“That’s amazing right? That’s exactly what we wanted!”

Theo had stopped pacing at this point. Now he stared down at the floor.

“Okay, there must be a catch. Why aren’t you telling me what’s going to save him? What’s wrong?”

He visibly gulped and began rapidly talking down at Hermione’s shoes, each word spoken quicker than the last.

“It’s an old law. Not exactly sure where it originated from but there are records of it being applied a few times in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. One of those laws that they didn’t want the public to remember. It would give Draco a full stay. He wouldn’t have access to a wand for another year, but he would be pardoned from the Kiss and released from Azkaban.”

“I’m confused. This sounds exactly like what we were looking for. In fact, it sounds almost too good to be true.”

Theo straightened his shoulders as if to prepare himself and looked up from the floor, his deep green eyes boring into Hermione’s.

“It’s a Gallows Marriage, Hermione.”

Notes:

Hello! I am posting today and then following the weekly Wednesday and Sunday updates.

Thank you for all the support!

Follow my TikTok MilaBelle13 for edits, sneak peeks and chapter announcements.

Shoutout to Rompeprop, my muse and Beta.

Hope you enjoy!

This was written on my phone in the backseat of my car while entertaining a toddler. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 4

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Theo said it as if it explained everything, but Hermione was even more clueless about what he was trying to make her understand.

“Marriage?”

“If someone proposes to him before he is Kissed, he gets a stay.”

Hermione wanted to laugh at the absurdity of the law.

“That’s all that’s needed? No wonder the Ministry wanted to bury that law. It would let anyone get out of the Kiss. Well, that’s easy enough. Get one of Malfoy’s friends to propose to him.”

“I found this law shortly after we met. I reached out to many of our old friends. Draco... he pushed a lot of people away during the war. And the Malfoy reputation pushed away any other acquaintance who potentially would have done it.”

“I thought I heard rumours in school about Astoria Greengrass?

“Her and Draco had a brief engagement just before the war started. The law states that someone who was in an engagement with the prisoner, even a broken engagement, can’t propose.”

Hermione felt her heart beat a little faster, “Wasn’t he close with Pansy Parkinson?”

“She is engaged to Blaise Zabini. It’s a marriage of convenience but Draco would never accept it.

A faint ringing began in her ears, “He would turn down the chance to live? I thought you said it was a marriage of convenience? Didn’t he and Pansy date?”

Theo dipped his head, “Draco and Pansy have history. Draco cares about her a lot, but she had more serious feelings for him than he reciprocated. He wouldn’t do something that would hurt her like that.”

“Other than die apparently,” Hermione’s voice sounded flat.

Theo flinched. She felt guilty for her blunt words but didn’t take them back. She was beginning to feel lightheaded, like all the air was being sucked out of the room.

“What about you then? You weren’t betrothed to him before, and I presume aren’t currently married. Are you engaged?”

He shook his head, “I would, believe me. I would do it in a heartbeat and make the stubborn bastard accept. But the law states it must be a witch who proposes to a wizard.”

“Oh, so it’s also bigoted besides being stupid. Honestly, that fits.”

Theo looked equally as frustrated, “Can’t expect much from a law dating back to the seventeenth century.”

Hermione was fully beginning to panic. She had always loved solving riddles and she had solved the one Theo had laid before her.

“I can’t.”

“Hermione-”

She stood up quickly, shaking her head back and forth, “I can’t do it. Marriage, Theo? Marriage? That’s ridiculous. If I ever got married it was going to be in the future, at least another five years.”

“Please, Hermione, you said you wanted to do something-”

“Yes! Change the law, undo an injustice, not get married! It’s Malfoy! We were never even friends! That meeting the other week was the first time I’ve seen him since the Battle of Hogwarts! The battle he was on the wrong side of!”

Theo snapped his head up from the spot he was staring at on the floor once more.

“You said you didn’t think he deserved his sentence, that you forgave him.”

“Yes, I forgave him but that doesn’t mean I trust him! He’s Malfoy! His family followed Voldemort! He tortured Muggleborns!”

Theo was now breathing heavily and glaring, “You just said you haven’t seen him in five years. That’s a long time for someone to change. You don’t know him.”

Without thinking Hermione tore the sleeve of her blouse up, baring the ugly scars that were raw from her fingertips and held it up to Theo. “I know this! I know he was the first one to call me this word! I know this is how he was raised! I know he stood and watched as these words were carved into my skin by his aunt!”

Theo snapped his mouth shut, staring at the ugly word that marred her skin. As he continued to stare, she saw the fire leaving his eyes.

“I’m sorry, Theo. I can’t. I don’t think Malfoy is the same bully he was. I don’t think he deserves to die, but I can’t marry him. I would do a lot to help, I promise, but this? This is too much. I’ve done enough.”

He continued to stand and stare at her arm. As the adrenaline began to leave Hermione’s body, she was left with an exhaustion she felt in her bones. This was it. The last hope for freeing Malfoy and she couldn’t do it.

“I’m sorry. I knew it was an impossible ask. You’ve helped more than anyone could have expected. You’re right, just because I love him doesn’t mean that he doesn’t have a dark past. Thanks for hearing me out. I won’t take up any more of your time.”

He gave Hermione a slow and sad looking smile that didn’t touch his eyes. With that, he left her alone in the meeting room with nothing but her thoughts.

~~

Hermione told her superior, a dowdy woman named Lydia Fletcher, that she wasn’t feeling well and would be taking a few days off. She got an unconvinced eyebrow raise in return but couldn’t bring herself to quite care. She had enough sick leave to cover her time and promised to Owl her work from home. Hermione had failed with Malfoy, it made sense she was also shit with her job. Who was she even if she wasn’t succeeding?

Attempting to read had failed as nothing could hold her attention. She tried cleaning her home but gave up when the act of just standing felt too great. Her cuticles were ragged as she picked and chewed the abused flesh. Her scar was more irritated than ever and needed thick salve to stop it from burning. This is how the rest of the week went. Finally, after another day of lying in bed, a scratching brought her out of her pitiful state. A tawny owl patiently waited as Hermione opened her window and took the parchment he was carrying. She gave him a treat from the bowl she left by the glass and opened the small slip of paper.

Are you really sick or taking a well-deserved break? If you’re still alive, Floo over for dinner. If you’ve died, I’ll kill you myself.

-G.P.

Hermione smiled. Rotting in bed wasn’t helping her feel any better. Maybe an evening with her friends, who always raised her spirits, would help. It couldn’t make her feel worse.

~~

Hermione felt worse.

The three friends sat together at a small table in Grimmauld Place, eating dinner. After the Battle Harry had renovated the old home. Each room that he fixed seemed to rebuild bits and pieces of himself that had been broken in the war. The first place that had ever felt like home to him had been shattered during that Final Battle. While Hogwarts had long been restored, painful memories haunted the halls and he longed to replace that sense of belonging the castle had once given him. Now Grimmauld was filled with light and warmth. With wooden furniture, old Quidditch memorabilia and hand-knitted throws, the home felt like the perfect representation of her friends.

His new home is is where Hermione sat, trying to feel present in the moment. Ginny and Harry were funny and warm and usually brought a smile to her face. They also made her heart feel heavy sometimes.

Never for the entire visit, just for small moments here and there when they were openly affectionate with each other and obviously in love. Usually, she was able to push through the ache and enjoy the company, but today she felt the pang more acutely.

They made Hermione’s loneliness so much more present. Not just for an intimate relationship, but for any sort of simple companionship. She had friends of course, people she considered herself very close to. A string of short dalliances had also helped to fill her days and warm her nights. Still, she wanted someone who she could show her hurt, her wrath, her ugliness to, without fear of losing or breaking them. Her friends had gone through so much and were coming out the other side. Hermione didn’t want to burden them, didn’t want to reveal that she still carried fear that she hadn’t been able to move past. She couldn’t understand why she secluded herself, why she pushed people when she so desperately wanted to pull. Hermione felt lonely but there was comfort in it.

She stared at Ginny filled with guilt. Her sweet friend who had wondered where she had disappeared to.

“How’s practice been going, Gin?” Brown eyes looked at her curiously. Hermione hated Quidditch, a well-known fact.

“Oh no, you really must be dying if you want to talk quidditch.”

Ginny tossed a green bean from her plate at Harry, “You shut it, my life as a celebrity athlete is very exciting to everyone.” She turned to Hermione, “It’s been going well! Our first match of the season is next week, the 16th!”

The 16th. The day after Malfoy’s execution. Hermione felt frozen for a moment but willed her muscles to relax.

Be normal. Act normal.

Ginny must have realised what she had said, “Oh, Hermione, I’m so sorry. Harry told me you’ve been working on the Malfoy case. Was that artefact bloke not able to help? Is that why you took time off of work?”

Hermione gulped, feeling shaky.

“We thought maybe we had a plan, but it was a dead end.”

There was sympathy in both of her friend’s eyes.

“Please don’t say you’re going with Plan B. B standing for breaking him out.”

Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry but couldn’t bring herself to let the quip lighten her mood as intended.

“I already went through the logistics. Turns out having an alleged serial killer and many Death Eaters breaking out really highlight the holes in one’s security.”

Harry nodded, “Another breakout would probably look bad for my Department. Sorry about your dead end though. I know if there was a way, you would have done it, Hermione.”

Hermione felt sick. She began to rub the raw skin of her thumb with her pointer finger, letting the pain bring her heart rate down.

“Malfoy didn’t even want my help.”

“Was the ferret a bastard about it?” Ginny looked at Hermione expectantly.

Hermione sighed and rubbed her eyes, “No. He wasn’t exactly friendly but wasn’t rude. He told me something kind of odd. That he had been intrigued by me in school. Apparently, he felt a lot of weight about holding up his family name and he was curious about what it would have been like to not have any expectations like a Muggleborn. It was slightly sweet while also being a little patronising.”

“Curious you say?” Ginny asked Hermione in a knowing way.

Harry didn’t seem to notice his wife’s off handed comment and instead appeared thoughtful, “I’m surprised he admitted something like that to you. Doesn’t seem very Malfoy-like.”

Ginny nodded in agreement, “I guess it all coming to an end changed some things for him. Kind of strange to see him be so… human?”

The few bites Hermione had managed to eat began to roll in her stomach, “When I spoke with him, he told me to let it go, that it was settled, and he had accepted it. He seemed so resigned to his fate.”

“Of course, you continued to research and track down leads. You’d make a good Auror, Hermione. I could always recommend you for the Department.”

“Yeah, but nobody ever seems to like my help very much,” she grumbled to Harry.

“When has someone wanting your help or not ever stopped you from helping? Remember S.P.E.W? None of those House Elves wanted to be freed from Hogwarts but you still knitted those tiny hats anyways. You saw something you didn’t believe in and you decided to make a change. That’s just who you are.” He gave her a sweet look of affection, not understanding the meaning his words were having on her. She nodded her head with a slight smile, hoping to look appreciative of his sentiments while her mind raced.

Harry had made a good point about Hermione’s personality. She didn’t stand by while something she thought was wrong took place. It was why she felt sick since reading that article in the Prophet, why she hadn’t been able to focus on the job she loved, why she couldn’t stop thinking of Malfoy’s blank eyes.

Hermione wasn’t one to just standby and she was terrified by what that meant.

~~

Hermione hoped Theo was home when she Flooed over. It had taken her the entire weekend to build her courage to visit him. While she did get much needed work done that Monday for the Centaurs, she had succumbed to a panic attack in the women’s lavatory during her lunch break. Malfoy’s execution was set to happen in three days' time. She needed to talk to Theo.

When she stepped out of the Floo a small House Elf wearing a dress made from a tea towel and a feathered fedora walked up towards her.

“Welcome, Miss Hermione. Master Nott is in his study. Tippi can take Miss to him now.”

With that the elf turned and quickly started walking without sparing a glance back to see if Hermione was following. She led her through a maze of hallways, all beautifully ornate, until they reached a mahogany door. Tippi knocked twice and then opened the door after a muffled, “Come in.”

“Master Nott, Miss Hermione.”

Then the elf twirled on her feet and was gone.

“Sorry about Tippi, she runs a tight ship around here.” He looked abashed as he stood behind a large desk of matching mahogany. Papers were strewn all over the surface, along with items Hermione was quite certain she shouldn’t touch. His proclivity for dark objects made her nervous.

“Here, please sit down,” he motioned towards the leather chair across from him, but it was Hermione’s turn to wave her hand. She preferred to stand for this conversation. He didn’t seem to miss this and took a small inhale, sitting back down slowly.

“I’ve come to talk to you, Theo.” He gave her a small assuring smile and she continued. “First I’d like to say that what you thrusted upon me was wholly unfair. You just ambushed me at my work and demanded a life altering decision on the spot.”

Theo looked miserable but was nodding his head furiously, “I know, Hermione, I’m so-”

“Let me finish,” she cut him off with a sharp look. He appeared properly reprimanded, and she continued. “You should have laid out what you had found without any expectations, and we could have tried to problem solve together. Instead, you threw that out, didn’t like my answer and then left. I’m sure that isn’t how you typically consult on projects. I also hope that isn’t how you typically treat people you call friends.”

He couldn’t look her in the eye but still nodded his head.

“That being said, I’ll do it.”

His head suddenly froze, chin tilted to the floor, but his eyes flicked up to where Hermione was standing.

“I’m sorry… what?”

“I said I’ll do it. I’ll follow the Gallows Marriage Law. I’ll marry him.”

The words were less confident sounding than she had hoped but she stood by them.

“Why are you doing this? What changed your mind?”

“Breaking him out of Azkaban sounded harder,” she tried to joke even though the statement was true.

“You don’t need to do this, Hermione, really. It was so wrong of me to ask you in the first place.”

“We do harsh things for love. Believe me, I understand. I’ve made my decision though. I want to save Malfoy. I wish it could happen a different way and I’m scared as hell but if this is it, I’ll do it.”

Theo stared at her. He didn’t say a single word, just continued to look for any sign of a falsehood in her face. Once he seemed satisfied, he stood up and swiftly walked to Hermione. She took a step back not quite sure what he was doing but before she knew it he had gathered her in his arms. She felt awkward for a moment and gently patted his back while she began to feel him shake. Dampness grew where his face was resting on her shoulder. She knew what it felt like to be so full of fear about a friend’s life. She tightened her arms around him, their obvious height difference making it almost comical. She wasn’t sure how long she held him while he cried but after a time, he stepped back. She expected him to clear his throat and quickly wipe his tears, hiding the evidence of his emotions like many men did. Instead, Theo just smiled at her with tear tracks staining his cheeks, unembarrassed by the display.

“Thank you, Hermione. You have no idea what this means to me.”

Hermione felt like she was maybe one of the few people in the world who knew exactly what it felt like.

“I still want to talk things through though. I want to know exactly what the law says and what I’m getting myself into. I also need to know how to even go about it all.”

Theo nodded his head, this time with excitement instead of shame.

“Of course, I’ll answer everything. I owe you a sit-down, reasonable discussion I think.”

He called for Tippi who brought some tea and small sandwiches. The elf gave Hermione a suspicious look when she saw Theo’s obvious distress but didn’t say anything. Theo saw Hermione’s curiosity.

“She’s a free elf with a good wage and holiday, I promise.”

Hermione laughed and sat down to drink her tea as they discussed her upcoming nuptials late into the night.

~~

Hermione wasn’t sure how time could pass so quickly when her days felt so long. She was back to working and finally felt like she was on track. After a serious discussion with herself she had promised to not think about the Malfoy debacle while at the Ministry.

Suddenly it was the day before the Kiss was scheduled.

Hermione replayed the information Theo had provided as she sat in her bathtub. She was a bundle of nerves soaking in the scalding water. It was June and the weather was warm but Hermione felt a chill she couldn’t get rid of.

Tomorrow she would propose to Malfoy. Theo had told her to write to the DMLE to request to be a witness in order to gain access to Azkaban where the Kiss would take place. All witnesses would sit in stands surrounding the chair Malfoy would be brought to. They would ask him for final words and then ask the witnesses for theirs.

“That’s our moment. It needs to be done in front of witnesses who can vouch for your proposal and his response.”

“What if he refuses?”

Theo had stayed quiet for a moment when she had asked this, “That’s the risk we run. Legally we aren’t allowed to cajole him. We can mention the law and that it would offer a stay but can’t convince him to accept. We must do this by the book. They are going to look for any reason to throw it out.”

Hermione stepped out of the bath, dried herself off and then dressed in her most loved jumper. She needed every comfort she could get in that moment.

Theo had told her that they needed to marry in a week’s time for Malfoy to receive his stay. He would be kept in custody for the duration. This allowed Hermione time to change her mind. If she did, his original sentencing would be rescheduled. Once the week was up he would be released and they would need to marry that day.

“You’ll need to live together. I’m sorry, but you have to live together for at least a year.”

“How long do we have to stay married?”

Theo hesitated and Hermione prayed that the answer wasn’t forever.

“You can legally separate after three years. You can divorce after five.”

Hermione wanted to sigh in relief and cry at the same time. She would be closer to thirty than twenty when she could divorce and finally meet someone. That was still young, but it felt so long from that moment.

“Hermione you can back-”

“I’m fine,” she cut him off. She would be fine.

Hermione listened to Crookshank’s loud purrs as she snuggled in her bed. The Draco constellation twinkled above her head.

She was Hermione Granger. This is what she did. She would be fine.

Notes:

Thank you for all the support and love!

Please enjoy this new update! This is my first Wednesday update and then we will have the next update on Sunday!

Love and gratitude to rompeprop for being my beta!

This was written on my phone while drinking at an Applebees. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 5

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione stared at the wall of the small room she was in. She wore dark black robes and her work heels. She didn’t know what one wore to an execution turned surprise proposal, but figured black would be fine for the occasion. Theo wore expensive and sleek black robes next to her which helped to reaffirm her wardrobe choice. Her hair was down. Her mane of thick curls stopped below her breasts, longer than she had ever had it before. As she moved, she could smell faint hints of her shampoo which calmed her racing heart. They weren’t alone in the room. A witch with greying hair in dark purple robes eyed the room nervously, her knee bouncing in an erratic rhythm. A wizard with a thick moustache was sitting frozen like a statue, barely even blinking. Hermione guessed they were the other witnesses. She wondered what brought them to Malfoy’s Kiss. Had he tortured them? Or a family member had been killed at the Manor and they were here to see justice meted out? Hermione began to sweat.

“Can you stop that?” She looked over to Theo who was gazing pointedly at her hands. She was picking at her cuticles again. They looked red and sore, dried blood still visible around her thumb. She immediately flushed and folded her hands into fists.

“Don’t say a word, Theo. I’m allowed to be nervous. I’m not changing my mind.”

Theo flicked his eyes once more at her hands but gave a short nod of surrender.

“How much longer?” Hermione peeked at the timepiece on the wall that said it was a quarter after nine in the morning.

“It should be soon.”

They waited in nervous silence for another fifteen minutes before the door opened. A mousy looking Auror ushered them out of the room, down the hall and finally into a large amphitheatre. This new room was open and made of light grey stone. It reminded Hermione of a damp and dark Ministry courtroom. As soon as they entered Hermione could feel the chilly air wash over her. Her exhales were visible, the ghostly puffs revealing how quickly she was breathing. They walked down stone stairs, each step leading to rows of seats that flowed out towards either side of the aisle. Members of the Wizengamot were already seated to the left. Hermione, Theo, and the other witnesses were led to stands to the right of the aisle. A few Aurors milled about, chatting leisurely. Once seated, Hermione stared at the singular stone seat that sat at the bottom of the theatre in the very centre. That’s where Malfoy would sit. Something caught Hermione’s attention. As she looked up, she saw ghostly figures shrouded in black swirling over their heads. Dementors were circling above them.

The Kiss had originally been set to be banned. The practice of using Dementors as executioners had come under scrutiny after the war, but as years passed, the outrage had lessened. People soon started suggesting that using dementors on the Death Eater prisoners would be some sort of just reward. Hermione and even Harry had written to Kingsley, but nothing had changed. The dementors continued to guard Azkaban’s worst alongside Aurors now. Hermione pulled her robes tight, trying to block out the icy cold the creatures created.

Suddenly a door at the bottom of the amphitheatre opened. Two Aurors walked in. Trailing them was Malfoy.

Hermione’s breath hitched. He looked just as thin. He still wore a jumpsuit, though it looked dirtier. She wondered if it was the same one she had seen him in before. The beige colour now appeared almost brown. His face was still just as gaunt, but scruffy hairs covered his jaws and cheeks. The patchiness reminded Hermione that he had just turned twenty-three. So young. Where his blonde hair had hung long before, it was now cropped close to the scalp, revealing the skin below. A darker patch near his right temple suggested they had cut the flesh and hadn’t bothered to heal it.

Breathe. Just breathe.

Malfoy was shackled and two more Aurors flanked him. They walked slowly until they reached the stone chair at the centre. His breath was visible, but he didn’t shiver, even in his painfully thin clothes. They unshackled his hands, which were attached to his waist and forcefully pushed him towards the chair. Hermione watched as Malfoy pitched forward, hitting his knee against the unforgiving stone, and barely catching himself in time before his face smashed into it. Theo, whom she had forgotten about until just then, swiftly started to stand, but Hermione grabbed his sleeve and yanked him down. They couldn’t get kicked out before it even started. She would cast a sticking charm to him if she needed to. Thankfully, he seemed to collect himself and sat without a struggle.

Hermione looked back towards Malfoy who was now sitting in the chair, bound to the stone at the wrists and ankles. She hadn’t realised how large the chair was until she saw him in it, looking much like a child. The back towered above him, and the stone armrests jutted out past his hands. An Auror waved his wand and a metal band attached Malfoy’s head to the back of the chair, restricting him fully. The moment the metal connected with the skin of his forehead; Hermione saw Malfoy’s eye widen for a brief moment. His hands balled into tight fists; the bones of his knuckles sharp like they would burst from his skin. They shook ever so slightly until he took a deep breath and suddenly all the tension seemed to melt from his body. His hands unclenched and he stared straight ahead, no discernible expression. The relaxed position and lack of hair allowed Hermione to get a clear view of the dark letters on the side of his neck. Malfoy had received another mark like his father. This time it was the cruel runes and numbers of an inmate identification tag.

Fehu and Uruz. Like father, like son.

“Draco Lucius Malfoy, inmate 717, has been tried and found guilty. Today, the 15th of June, he will receive the Kiss. Once the act has been completed, he shall return to Azkaban until his days end.”

Hermione shook at the words the Chief Warlock spoke as they stood. Augustus Codsworth. The same member Theo had spoken to. The round man looked satisfied as he talked. Hermione couldn’t stop thinking of Malfoy’s soulless body left to wither in a cell.

“Does the inmate wish to share his final words?”

“Just get on with it and stop talking.” Malfoy’s voice came out monotone though Hermione could picture a roll of the eyes and a bored tone. Codsworth looked annoyed but straightened his Wizengamot robes and moved on. She knew what was about to happen.

“Any last remarks from the witnesses?”

For the first time since entering the room Malfoy looked to see who else was in the crowd. His eyes froze when they reached where Theo sat. Hermione wasn’t sure he had even seen her. His carefully built walls crumbled and the look of anguish that graced his features while he stared at Theo felt like a punch to Hermione’s gut.

“I want him out.” Malfoy rushed, “Get him out, I don’t want him here. Get him out.”

The Auror nearest him aimed a silencing charm. Even though no words were audible, he thrashed in his bonds, his mouth moving rapidly.

“Your time to speak has passed, Mr. Malfoy. Any witness present has been allowed entrance by the Auror Department. I repeat myself, any final remarks from the witnesses?” Codsworth peered out expectantly.

Hermione felt frozen in her seat. This was the moment. Malfoy was seconds from having his soul sucked out and she had the power to stop it.

If she could only move.

Theo swung his head towards her, and Hermione saw the fear. Fear that she was backing out. That spurred her into action. She stood quickly, catching herself on Theo’s shoulders as her knees buckled slightly.

“I have something to say!” Her voice was high pitched in her own ears and slightly breathless. Malfoy had stopped struggling. His cheeks were flushed as he panted, his eyes widening as he noticed her for the first time.

Codsworth gave an exasperated glance, “Yes, Miss Granger?”

Hermione looked at all the expectant faces that surrounded her and her mouth dried.

This was it.

There was no other way.

There was no going back.

“I, Hermione Jean Granger, would like to ask Draco Lucius Malfoy to marry me.”

The words were rushed but strong. She was impressed she had managed to say it without fumbling.

The room was silent for a moment before multiple voices rang out. Codsworth, who was still standing, motioned for the voices to stop.

“I’m not sure what you are trying to do, Miss Granger, but that’s entirely impossible.”

“It’s not,” Theo was now standing. “According to the Gallows Marriage Law, if Draco Malfoy accepts this proposal he shall receive a stay of execution.”

The once confused voices now sounded angry.

“Ridiculous!”

“That’s not a law!”

“What in Merlin’s name is going on?”

Codsworth once again commanded silence with a firm wave of his hand.

“I don’t know what you’re getting at, but I’ve heard of no such law.”

“It’s a real law that dates to the 1600s. There have been multiple cases of the law being used, including for Aberforth Merrimount’s stay of 1629 and Silvanus Stockwart’s stay of 1677. It was created by the Wizengamot to decrease the loss of Magical life during the time of witch burnings. I have with me copies of legal manuscripts for proof.” Theo held up an old rolled up parchment in his hand. He passed them to an Auror that was in the centre aisle to be taken to the Wizengamot members. Codsworth read the paperwork with a frown.

“This is an incredibly old law, young man. You don’t have any cases past the 17th century.”

“That doesn’t mean it isn’t the law,” Hermione looked Codsworth in the eyes, “This entire trial has been based on old traditions. Does the Wizengamot cherry-pick what laws to abide by? It was never overturned. This law is still applicable now. I am a witch who has never had an engagement with Mr. Malfoy. I am eligible to make this proposition and he is eligible to accept.” Codsworth continued to stare back silently. Hermione refused to blink or turn away.

After a few more moments of an uncomfortable standoff, Codsworth glanced down at the paper in his hands. “The Wizengamot will be verifying the legality of this law based on Mr. Malfoy’s response. If it is found to be in good standing, we shall abide by them,” this received more angry murmurs, but he continued, “If it is found to be false, the sentence will be reinstated.”

With this he turned to Malfoy. Hermione somehow had forgotten about the subject of this entire ordeal. He looked shocked, his mouth gaping open. Codsworth cast a Finite at him but still he remained silent.

“Mr. Malfoy, the court requires your immediate response.”

He didn’t say a word.

“Mr Malfoy, we don’t have all day.”

Malfoy finally turned to Theo and Hermione and continued to stare as he spoke, “So if I accept her proposal, that’s it? I’m free?” He didn’t look away from them as he directed his incredulous question to the Wizengamot.

Codsworth looked less than pleased, “Yes.”

Theo had said they weren’t allowed to sway him, but she knew he was begging the blonde wizard with his gaze. Malfoy flicked between Theo’s green eyes back and forth, back, and forth. Hermione saw his shocked stare dull back down and his features slacken from disbelief to cool composure.

“I accept.” Any emotion that had been present before had evaporated. Nothing but flat grey remained.

Codsworth waved his wand and the bonds that held Malfoy down released as Aurors pulled him up like a puppet. They reattached his shackles. He looked down at his tethered hands and then back to Theo for a moment, like he would have felt confusion if he could feel anything at all. Codsworth answered the unspoken question. “You will return to Azkaban, Mr. Malfoy. Miss Granger has a week to recant her proposal. We will also be using this grace period to verify this so-called law. I expect to be back here with you in a week's time.”

The cool facade shattered in an instant and Malfoy looked at Theo in horror. The Aurors began to pull him through the door as he struggled to keep his attention on his friend.

“I won’t change my mind! I won’t!” Hermione yelled at the terrified man, who more resembled a lost boy, as he disappeared. She wanted to hex that smug look off the face of the Chief Warlock.

“This concludes today's session. Everyone is dismissed.” Hermione had every intention to march up to Codsworth, but Theo’s figure blocked her from the aisle.

“That bastard Codsworth is a menace.”

Theo didn’t respond. He just stared at the stone chair in the centre of the room.

“Theo?”

He looked at her with glassy eyes. The room had emptied as he stared, the members of the Wizengamot loudly complaining as they went.

“It’s done. We did it,” he whispered. Rogue tears were beginning to fall as he looked around the room, taking in the horror.

Hermione felt a lump in her throat as she saw the lost expression on her friend's face. “It’s done. We did it, Theo.”

Still somehow surprised by his open displays of emotion, Hermione patted Theo’s back as his features broke and he let out a ragged sob that echoed in the empty chamber.

Hermione knew that this was just the beginning of the work that needed to be done. The true test of their resolution to see this through was coming for them.

In that moment though, she focused on comforting her friend as he came to terms with almost witnessing the downfall of the only family he had left.

~~

As Hermione led a calmed Theo out of the large room, she excused herself for a moment to use the lavatory. She desperately wanted to splash some cool water on the back of her neck, the waning adrenaline of the day making her hot and shaky. She navigated her way through the halls but was physically blocked by the witch in the purple robes and the man with the moustache.

“How could you do that! How could you let that animal go!” The woman was spitting as she screamed, bits of spittle sliding down her chin. Hermione was shocked into silence and the witch continued, “You just freed a murderer! You’re supposed to be Harry Potter’s friend! Do you know what that Death Eater does to Muggleborns! Do you know what he did to our daughter!”

Hermione just gaped at the woman, “I-I am sor–”

“You’re sorry? That’s all you have to say? I hope you get what’s coming to you! Mark my words, that snake will slit your throat in your sleep!” The man was gently trying to pull the woman away, glaring as they went. Hermione stood locked in place as she heard the woman’s cries become fainter and fainter.

Breathebreathebreathebreathe.

The room was spinning, and Hermione felt like she had been cold plunged into water and couldn’t get a breath in. Before she knew what was happening, she was grasping onto Theo’s lapels.

“Hermione?”

“Can you take me home please. I-I’m not feeling very well.” Somehow, she kept her voice steady. Theo looked concerned but merely nodded and led her to the Azkaban and Ministry controlled Floos. Hermione must have muttered her address because, before she knew it, Theo was pulling her to her sofa. Crookshanks yowled at the wizard but trotted to Hermione’s side as she sat. He had always been able to tell when she needed his calming touch. He began to press his paws rhythmically into her thigh, the pressure soothing.

“What happened?” Theo sat next to her.

“The shock of the day just finally got to me. I didn’t sleep very well last night, probably a cold is coming up,” she lied, like she often did, not wanting to put the weight of the angry witch on Theo’s conscience. He already was facing so much from the day. “I’m fine, I swear. Nothing that a bath and a cup of tea can’t fix. I promise to take Pepper-Up as well.”

“Maybe also a Dreamless sleep?” Hermione nodded, knowing she wouldn’t. After having struggled with sleep for so long, she had toed the line of addiction to the helpful potion. She had quit cold turkey a year ago and refused to fall into the pit of it again.

“Yes, that’s a great idea.”

Lieslieslieslieslies.

Theo once more didn’t look convinced but slowly stood. “Alright. Please get some well-deserved rest. I must get some things situated before the week is up. If you need anything at all, please reach out. Tippi knows you are welcome at the Manor whenever.”

He walked towards the fireplace and then paused, slowly turning back to Hermione.

“Thank you, Hermione. Really.”

With that he disappeared into green smoke.

Once Hermione was alone, she felt the faux smile fall from her face.

She sat.

And sat.

Crookshanks curled up beside her when he realised she wouldn’t pet him, but still she sat. The bright light of midday dimmed to the glow of the evening and eventually faded into the dark of the night.

Still, she sat.

Hermione hadn’t turned on the lights when she arrived home with Theo, nor had she when he left, so she sat on the sofa, cloaked in darkness. There, Hermione felt the burden of lives lost in the war sit heavily on her shoulders. She swore if she reached back, she could physically touch the weight that had kept her from taking a deep breath. Eventually the angry cries of a hungry half-Kneazle brought Hermione out of her stupor. She left the lights off. When she was done, she climbed into bed. The clothes that she had decided would work for both an execution and proposal became nightwear. She toed her shoes off and covered herself completely with the quilt, blocking out the stars.

This was it.

There was no going back.

There was no other way.

Notes:

Thank you for all the love and support! It’s been a wild ride!

Thank you to my beautiful beta babes!

This was written on my cracked iPhone, in the car, somewhere in middle-of-nowhere Kentucky. Proceed with Caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 6: Chapter 6

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione sat at her desk, editing paperwork. Four days had passed since the proposal, much to her shock. That meant there were only three days until her wedding. When she had finally succumbed to exhaustion in her bed the night following the almost Kiss, she had felt as if the world had fallen off its axis and stopped spinning.

Somehow, she was awoken the next morning by the alarm on her wand telling her it was time to get ready for work. She had sat up and forced herself through the motions of showering, dressing, feeding her cat and heading to the Ministry. The same motions she had forced herself to perform every day since. She was sure she looked like she was Imperiused, but nobody acted like the world had ended even though hers had.

Hermione still had times where she wanted to run to the Aurors office and tell them she took back her offer. Usually, these moments came when she woke up from the few precious hours of sleep she could get, after seeing the grey-haired witch in her dreams. She thought she had recognized the couple that had ambushed her but couldn’t quite place them. She had wanted to reach out to Theo to see if he had an idea but the image of his tear sodden face staring at a stone chair stopped her. She needed to keep it together on her own.

So, she went to work, edited paperwork, ate lunch robotically in the canteen while listening to Goldstein’s slightly offensive stories of nights out with friends and waited for the remaining days to pass. She had half expected to be mobbed by journalists when she first stepped into the Ministry after her cursed engagement, but none had materialised.

Theo later told her that the Ministry was keeping Malfoy’s stay heavily concealed. They didn’t want to notify the public until the law had been verified or disproven. They had sent an owl to Hermione the day before saying the investigation was still underway. Theo assured her that the law was solid. Hermione knew this of course; she had insisted on reading the old manuscripts herself. Signed with the magical signature of the Wizengamot, the manuscripts were authentic.

Codsworth and the witches and wizards of the legal body were biding their time, searching for loopholes, or waiting for Hermione to step down. Something she wouldn’t be doing. While the nerves still ate at her, once she made a decision, she stuck by it.

Every evening, she forced herself to have dinner and then laid in bed wondering what her life had become. What little sleep she could manage was plagued with strange dreams, like Malfoy in purple robes screaming at her with a silenced voice. She thought about the mystery couple and their words. She pictured that look of dread on Malfoy’s face when he realised he was going back to Azkaban. Hermione used this sleepless time to prepare the house for a new arrival. As if having a physical manifestation of the change to come would help her brain accept it.

Hermione loved her home. The small cottage sat in the country. It had three bedrooms that she used as a main bedroom, a guest room, and her beloved library. Her kitchen was quaint, but she loved the green tile on the wall and the wooden countertops. A small wooden table resided there which sat four and was often covered in paper and books. She spent most of her time in the living room. Her comfortable sofa and two armchairs provided plenty of space to host friends (she rarely did) and read. Her front yard was filled with herbs and flowers that she tended in the spring and the country roads were perfect for walks or bicycle rides. While Hermione loved being a witch, she enjoyed spending moments riding her bike and pretending that she was just a Muggle woman with no dark past. She would imagine she was out riding to her parents for tea, letting the warm sun freckle her skin.

I wonder if Malfoy can ride a bicycle.

Strange thoughts like this had been popping into Hermione’s mind as the day loomed closer.

What tea does he drink? Does he drink tea or does he like coffee? Does he have a preference for shampoo? What foods does he like? Does he like cats?

Will he like me?

Hermione bought multiple types of tea and some coffee, picked out two different bottles of shampoo and stocked her fridge. Hermione liked to be prepared. Every preparation she took felt like a lifeline to help her survive what was coming.

Then, somehow, it was the night before Malfoy would be freed and they would be wed.

That day Hermione had rearranged her furniture over and over again. Crookshanks jumped from floating cushion to chair to table until Hermione set them in their original spots. She set out the new teas, left the shampoos on the counter in the bathroom and made sure all the food in the fridge was easily accessible. The nerves were building to insurmountable levels, and she was desperate for anything to keep her hands busy.

A whoosh of the fireplace pulled Hermione from her ministrations.

“I thought you might need a small distraction.” Theo was stepping out of the Floo, dusting himself off. In his hands he shook a bottle of Ogden’s Finest Firewhisky. Hermione let out a sigh of relief.

“Oh, thank God, yes, I need a drink.” She levitated two glasses from an open shelf from the kitchen and sat on the floor by the coffee table while Theo stretched himself long on the couch. Crookshanks hissed at the intruder who gave a glare and hissed back.

“Stop bullying my cat,” Hermione tsked.

Theo uncorked the bottle and poured the contents into Hermione’s waiting glass, “The scoundrel started it.”

Hermione rolled her eyes and took a sip of the amber liquid. It burned exactly how she needed it, hurting in a way that reminded her she was still here.

They sat in comfortable silence, sipping their alcohol.

“I’m scared, Theo.”

Hermione hadn’t meant to say it but half a glass of Firewhisky in, she couldn’t seem to hold it back.

“I know you don’t have a lot of positive experience with him, but Draco isn’t a monster.”

The image of the screaming witch made Hermione take another large swig.

“It doesn’t matter at this point, I guess. I’m marrying him tomorrow.”

“I could tell you a little about him, if you wanted.”

Hermione looked at the wizard who stared at her with such hope. She nodded, figuring it would at least pass the time.

“Draco and I grew up together. This might surprise you, but dear dad wasn’t exactly the fathering type. After my mother passed, I spent most of my time at Malfoy Manor.”

“That’s why you called him your brother.”

Theo hummed, his cheeks flushed from alcohol, “We explored and caused general mischief like boys do. Daring each other to fly higher on our brooms than we were allowed or swim in the ponds. Or chase those blasted peacocks. Merlin, Draco was terrified of those birds. Couldn’t tell you how many times I watched him blubber because one of them got too close.”

Hermione burst out into a laugh, “Now that I believe.”

Theo grinned, “Oh yes. Draco was a bit of a cry-baby. Honestly, I felt like I needed to protect him constantly when we were younger.”

“Really? He always seemed exceptionally arrogant in school. Very conceited and jealous too.”

“All bravado. As the Heir to the Malfoy line, old Luci trained Draco to lord over the peasants around him. Don’t get me wrong, he is arrogant and can be a little shit but he’s also a caring friend. Even though he was terrified of those evil birds, he once saved me from one when we were seven. I got a bit too close, and it ran for me, but he started screaming and flapping his arms to distract it. Got bitten in return. He cried for a good few hours even though it hardly left a mark.” Theo stared off thoughtfully, a small smile on his face.

“I won’t lie, I’ve always thought of Malfoy as a coward.”

Theo swiftly looked at Hermione, glaring slightly but she stood her ground. It was true. The blonde boy had never come off as particularly brave. Quick to anger and judge, Malfoy seemed fine to let others act for him or take the blame.

“Just because he didn’t dive headfirst into problems like a reckless Gryffindor doesn’t mean he is a coward. While he wouldn’t risk his neck for a stranger or the greater good maybe, he has always stood up for those who are important to him. You might not believe it but Draco does have a sense of right and wrong. Why do you think he was just going to accept the Kiss even though it terrified him? He thinks he deserves it.”

Hermione felt surprised, “He seemed calm about the entire affair when I spoke with him.”

Theo poured Firewhisky into their now empty glasses, “Draco is an extremely talented Occlumens.”

The realisation struck Hermione. All those moments where his panic seemed to fade into calm. She had chalked it up to a man ready to meet his fate.

“He was Occluding when I met with him. And at Azkaban. He broke a few times but that’s why he seemed so disinterested.”

It was a revelation for Hermione. She had looked into Occlumency when Harry had attempted to learn but hadn’t even seen it practised. She shivered, “I thought he was getting a magic suppression potion?”

“He is. I think that’s why he kept breaking before the Kiss. He could only keep it up for very short bursts. While he can’t do any other magic, his intense Occlumency training during the war I guess let him do that much. Honestly, I’m not sure how all of it works.”

“He was Occluded the entire time we met.”

Theo looked away awkwardly.

“Was he Occluding when you met with him afterwards?”

His silence was answer enough.

“How bad was it, Theo?”

“Bad,” he replied as he drained the last of his Firewhisky. “Look, I’m not saying Draco is perfect. He is an incredibly flawed individual, but please be gentle with him. I don’t think anyone could hate him more than he hates himself. I would do anything to save him, but I couldn’t handle knowing I tied him to someone who can’t see him as anything but a coward. I know I’ve asked too much of you and it isn’t fair but please just,” Theo took a deep inhale, “please just see him as a person who is trying to pick up the pieces.”

Hermione hadn’t expected such a serious turn of the conversation. She felt herself whisper an agreement. She wasn’t sure how it would all work, but she knew she couldn’t say no while Theo had just laid his heart out before her. He thanked her and stood to go, claiming they needed their rest before tomorrow.

“You’re a good friend, Theo.” He turned his head away from the Floo to look back at her.

“You’re a good person, Hermione.”

As she pretended to sleep, Hermione pictured Malfoy’s flat eyes. She had learned so much about the man she had become inextricably connected to but had more questions than ever before. She spent the midnight hours staring at the constellations above her bed before finally giving into her exhaustion, glimpsing that cluster of seventeen stars before sinking into drunken sleep.

~~

Hermione was getting married today and she was hung over.

It honestly felt fitting.

Her head ached as she showered, her body sluggish and tired. She stood before her closet, trying to decide what conveyed, ‘Slightly Unwilling Bride,’ opting for light robes of a slate blue. She began to pin her hair up neatly but stopped herself. Malfoy had bullied her for her curls. While she was doing all of this because she didn’t want him to die, she couldn’t help but want to annoy him still. She left her thick hair long down her back. Soon she was ready and couldn’t delay a single moment longer.

She and Theo had decided to meet at Azkaban as the vows would take place there.

“A charming island wedding,” Hermione mused drolly.

Once more she sat in that small room at the prison.

The door burst open and none other than Pansy Parkinson rushed in and beelined to where Hermione waited. In shock, Hermione allowed herself to be pulled into a luxurious hug that smelled like perfume.

“Thank you, thank you, thank you,” Pansy was chanting the words as she cried.

Hermione didn’t move. What a strange day it was turning out to be.

Pansy squeezed once more and then pulled back, “I always knew once you learned how to dress and take care of that hair of yours you would actually be quite pretty.”

Ahh, there she was.

Pansy Parkinson had matured in all the ways a Pureblood heir should. She had grown beautifully into her features, her pug-nose now a refined button. Her hair was still styled in her signature bob, sharp and chic. Black robes draped over her slim frame perfectly. Hermione had read about Pansy designing clothes and wondered if it was one of her own creations.

“Now Petal, don’t be rude.”

Blaise Zabini had always been a handsome boy which hadn’t changed. He was tall and held himself with all the graces money could afford. His dark eyes were sharp and observant, surrounded by long lashes. Light grey robes offset his dark complexion wonderfully, making him look rather striking Hermione had to admit.

“I’m not being rude. That was a compliment.” Pansy sniffed daintily.

“Pans, I’ve heard your compliments before, and they need work.” Theo swept into the room sporting dapper dark blue robes and a wide grin.

“Hermione, don’t you look beautiful!” He swept her into a hug and kissed her cheek.

“That’s exactly what I said!” Pansy insisted.

“I heard you, and that’s not what you said. Hello Hermione. You look fabulous. Thanks for saving the idiot.” Blaise sent Hermione a small smile but didn’t embrace her which she was thankful for.

“Here, for you.” Theo handed her a Pepper-Up potion which she downed graciously.

“I brought these two along to be the witnesses. They also would have landed themselves here if I hadn’t invited them.”

The two Slytherins nodded in agreement.

Hermione honestly wasn’t sure what to do with herself. They weren’t necessarily strangers. They had been her classmates but had never been friends. Hell, Pansy had tried to give Harry to Voldemort. It was a part of war that Hermione had been able to come to terms with, a child afraid for her life, and she apologised to Harry a year after the war. Still, it was a surreal moment.

The day kept moving into the direction of make-believe.

Magic used to be make-believe to you too.

She hated when her inner voice was a know-it-all.

Before she had a chance to ponder the absurdity of her life any further, an Auror opened the door to the room. Hermione felt the sense of déjàvu as they followed the Auror. Instead of entering the cavernous chamber, they were led to a small office. A neat table with a leatherback chair sat in the centre and filing cabinets lined the walls. Hermione couldn’t have described it past, ‘Run of the Mill office.’

“Wait here. The prisoner will be out shortly.” The Auror allowed for no questions and shut the door behind me.

“The vows can’t be happening here, right?” Pansy sounded aghast at the thought.

“I don’t think there is a decorated reception being setup for a prison wedding, Petal.” Blaise raised an eyebrow while taking in the room with a look of distaste.

Pansy squeaked but said nothing further.

Hermione was doing her best to even her breath. The sun had risen that morning and despite every cell in her body trying to convince her otherwise, it would set tonight only to rise again tomorrow. She would survive. She had survived so much. She could survive this too.

The door opened again.

Everyone in the room waited with bated breath.

The Auror that had brought them to the room led the small group in. An additional two Aurors flanked the group. Malfoy stood in the middle.

Hermione hadn’t been so close to him since their meeting. He had acted so calm and aloof then, holding all the refinement she had remembered from their youth. That was now gone.

His hair, still shorn short, was patchier than first realised. The uneven lengths looked childish and the cut on his temple was now a cruel scab. Like they had done it with old shears instead of magic.

An animal for slaughter.

His jumpsuit, which Hermione was almost certain was the original she had seen him in, was dirty and threadbare. Holes were visible on his knees and the wrists torn. All the confidence in his posture was gone. He was hunched over, the shackles on his wrist pulling his shoulders down as they attached to a chain around his waist. His carefully blank face now gave way to terrified eyes that were frantically searching around the room.

“What- what the fuck happened to his face?” Theo asked the question more like a threat.

Hermione wanted to cry.

Mottled blues, greens and yellows shaded Malfoy’s once pale skin, the bruises in different stages of healing. Both hollows of the eye were dark purple, and his right eye was red with blown vessels. The sore looking skin of his cheek was scabbed where the prominence of the bone peaked. His full bottom lip was split, dried blood caking the skin.

“Oh, Draco.” Pansy’s voice sounded broken.

“You bastards! What the fuck did you do?” Blaise took a step forward and a twitchy Auror in the back raised his wand slightly.

“I’m fine.” While he looked far from calm, Malfoy’s voice still carried a note of blue-blooded authority.

“You most certainly are not fine. What did they do?” Theo looked as if he was about to start firing off hexes at will. Hermione wasn’t sure she would stop him or help.

“He had a bit of an accident. Nasty tumble down the steps back to his dear home of a cell.”

Definitely help. Hermione would aim for the twitchy bastard first.

“And what? He just happened to land on your fist?”

“Leave it, Theo. They aren’t worth it,” That was the voice Hermione had remembered from school. Bored and haughty. As if he wasn’t in chains with a battered face.

The Auror behind him scoffed but lowered his wand. A smart choice. Hermione felt her fingers itching to grab hers in her pocket.

“I’ve got to say, I’m surprised at you, Hermione Granger. I think your friend Harry Potter would have a few things to say about you marrying this filth.” Twitchy man gave her a toothy sneer.

“I think Harry would have a few things to say about your performance as a guard. Robards too. I’ll make sure to mention how DMLE agents manage themselves here.”

Twitchy looked angry but the younger guard beside Malfoy shifted his weight nervously.

The door swung open wider, revealing none other than Augustus Codsworth and a rather nervous looking wizard with an aged face. Hermione guessed the Officiant.

“I see you’ve decided to continue with this charade.” He stepped into the cramped small room, the other man inching in behind.

“I see you were unable to disprove the validity of the law.”

The round man curled a lip at Hermione, “It would seem so.” He walked into the centre of the room pausing for a moment to look at Malfoy’s beaten face, and then turned to face the group.

“Alright, time to get this over with.” He motioned for the tense looking wizard to stand by him.

Once in front of the room, the Officiant nervously glanced at Codsworth, “Ahh… I’ll need the bride and groom in front.”

Codsworth motioned for the Aurors to bring Malfoy forward. They prodded him until he stood before them.

“Miss Granger?”

Hermione, who had been so scared earlier, felt little but anger now. Codsworth sent her a small smile, daring her to go through with this. He didn’t know her very well.

She marched until she stood next to Malfoy, chin held high.

“Alright, these are the witnesses I presume?” The Officiant now looked slightly more confident in what he was doing.

“They are.” Her voice sounded strong.

“Alright, let’s begin. Please turn to face one another.”

Hermione felt her anger induced confidence melt.

She took a shaky breath and turned to face Malfoy.

It all looked so much worse up close. His bruises were a sharp contrast against his pale complexion. He smelled musty, like old sweat and damp earth. Hermione could spot bits of dirt and grime on his face.

Malfoy was a vain boy. He never would have allowed himself to look like this in school. She had never seen him so dishevelled.

He was staring down at his feet once he turned to face her.

“Malfoy, it’s okay. You are going to be freed.” She wasn’t sure why she whispered it while the Officiant opened the small book he held.

He looked up quickly, his grey eyes meeting hers. She could tell by the silver that he wasn’t Occluded. That and the obvious fear in his features. He gave a small nod and stood at full height. She hadn’t realised how hunched he had been until he raised himself. She barely reached his shoulders.

“We shall begin. Miss Granger, you will go first. Please repeat after me. Oh dear– could the groom's hands be released?”

Hermione let out a slightly hysterical giggle which she covered with a cough. An Auror cast a charm that released Malfoy’s wrists from the chain on his hips.

“Thank you. Where were we? Oh right.

You are Blood of my Blood, and Bone of my Bone.

I give you my Body, that we Two might be One.

I give you my Spirit, 'til our Life shall be Done.

You cannot possess me for I belong to myself.

But while we both wish it; I give you that which is mine to give.

You cannot command me, for I am a free person.

But I shall serve you in those ways you require,

and the honeycomb will taste sweeter coming from my hand.”

Hermione licked her dry lips. She hadn’t thought about the vows. The words they would speak to each other. Oh, God, what was she doing? How did she think she would be able to go through this? Malfoy’s eyes were searching her face. He looked tense. Still standing tall but lines of worry etched across his features. The fragile skin of his mouth looked like it would tear with his deep frown. She had the urge to smooth the worried lines on his face.

“Miss Granger?”

“Hmm?”

“The vows?

“Oh.”

That’s why he looked so concerned. The room was waiting for her to speak the vows.

Or for her to turn and run.

She uttered the beautiful and heavy words.

“Mr. Malfoy, please repeat the vows after me.”

Hermione was transfixed as his voice rang out the words without hesitation. While she had needed to lower her gaze for the vows, he held hers steadily.

“Please hold each other's hands. It is time for the Unbreakable Vow.”

Hermione immediately stepped backwards, “What vow? We never agreed to that.”

“Well, you understand Miss Granger, we can’t in good conscience release a criminal without any reassurance. The Wizengamot found it suitable under the provision that the witch would take proper responsibility for the wizard once the stay was given.”

Hermione stared daggers at the self-satisfied smirk on the bastard's face. They had left this for the last moment to throw Hermione off, to catch her off guard. She hated that it was working.

“It’s fine.” Malfoy’s voice sounded flat, but an almost imperceptible quiver at the end let Hermione know he wasn’t Occluded. He stared at the stone floor.

“Malfoy?”

“I don’t particularly want to go back but I’m not so deluded into thinking you would take on a Vow for me. Not even you can be so self-sacrificing.”

“What are you saying?” Hermione had taken a step closer, lowering her voice to keep the conversation from the entire room.

“Leave it, Granger. It’s fine.”

She watched as his shoulders lowered and his posture gave way to the stance of the broken man who had walked in. She hated it. Where was the Malfoy who would have demanded she offer help, who would have expected it? The war had taken so much from everyone. It had taken hopes, futures, memories and apparently personalities.

“I’ll make the Vow.”

His head snapped up; his bloodied mouth wide.

She grabbed his hand; the nails were dirtied and almost too long. She could feel the clamminess of his palm and gripped it tighter.

The Officiant looked between her and Codsworth, unsure of how to tread forward. Hermione gave him a wilful stare and he cleared his throat.

“Right, let us proceed.” He took out his wand, but Codsworth stepped forward, cutting him off.

“I’ll act as Bonder. If that is alright with the soon to be Mrs. Malfoy of course.”

Hermione didn’t respond. She knew it wasn’t a question.

He switched positions with the Officiant and held the tip of his wand to where Hermione and Malfoy’s still grasped each other.

“Do you, Hermione Granger, Vow to Draco Malfoy to uphold any and all responsibility for his actions legally for the duration of the required five years of marriage should he try to evade the law in any way set to the discretion of the law?”

“I do.”

A gold wisp of light appeared and began wrapping around their bound hands. It tingled as it settled in the flesh of their hands and wrist. It glowered brighter for a moment and then faded. What remained was a delicate filigree of gold links. It shimmered and then faded further into an almost scar-like ghost of a chain. She swiftly dropped Malfoy’s hand.

It was done.

No one clapped. No one cheered.

The Aurors unclasped the shackle that Malfoy had worn throughout the entire ceremony from his waist. As they removed the heavy chain, Hermione could have sworn that the new bond on her hand felt heavier.

“My congratulations on your fortuitous union. You are a free man Mr. Malfoy. You may leave with your new bride.” Codsworth motioned to the Aurors.

The twitchy one opened the door for them. Blaise, Pansy, and Theo rushed to Malfoy’s side. Pansy stood in front surveying the wreckage of his face.

“Let’s get you the fuck out of here,” Theo muttered and led the small group out. He gave a quick glance back to signal for Hermione to follow.

Hermione couldn’t believe it had worked. All the planning, the waiting, the doubt. It had all culminated in this moment, where Draco Malfoy would walk out of Azkaban a freed man.

“Miss Granger. Or should I say, Mrs. Malfoy?”

She stopped short of the door and looked back to where Codsworth now stood alone.

“A reminder that you are solely responsible for Mr. Malfoy.”

“I know what I Vowed.” She still faced the door, not wanting to give him the satisfaction of her full attention.

“Please know we haven’t given up. The Wizengamot accepts this stay. For now.”

Hermione paused for a moment and then continued to walk through the door. She had no time for idle threats from small men.

With that, Hermione Granger left Azkaban a married woman.

Notes:

Since it’s a long weekend in the US, I thought I’d drop another chapter early!

Next update after this will be Wednesday!

Big thanks to my bodacious betas, rompeprop and noxhunter!

Wedding vows are Clan Buchanan Celtic vows.

This was written on my busted phone while eating chicken nuggets. I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 7

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
 

 

They Flooed to Nott Manor. Hermione knew it was to surround Malfoy with something familiar but she was secretly thankful to not have the boisterous group in her home. 

Theo, Blaise and Pansy were talking over each other. They poked and prodded at Malfoy, asking for healing potions, new clothes, food, celebratory drinks. Poor Tippi, who usually kept her cool, looked ready to cry as she tried to decide what to grab first. 

Hermione stepped forward. 

“Tippi, please bring healing potions immediately. If you could bring food after, that would be greatly appreciated.”

Hermione had experience taking charge in hectic situations during the war. 

The house elf still didn’t fully trust her but seemed thankful for a clear direction and Apparated away. 

“Already acting like a ‘Mrs. Malfoy’. I knew I’d like you.” Hermione suppressed a shiver at Pansy’s words.

A moment later Tippi popped back in the room with an armful of supplies. Hermione motioned for them to be set on a small and expensive looking side table. 

Theo led Malfoy to her. He looked fidgety but was obviously trying to act perfectly comfortable. His hands were clenching and unclenching as he slowly lowered to the chair Hermione had pulled forward.

“Is it okay if I touch you?” 

This seemed to catch him off guard. Hermione had assumed that he hadn’t been asked for consent often in Azkaban and the look on his face proved it. He gave a shaky nod and looked past her, staring at the wall. 

She assessed his wounds and then began her work. She dabbed Murtlap essence on the bruises around his face, using a small cloth to avoid skin contact. His eyes remained open, staring past her shoulder. 

She drew her wand and Malfoy flinched hard. 

“I’m just fixing your lip.” He frowned uncomfortably and nodded, his cheeks turning a pale pink. 

She cast the Episkey, healing the torn spots on his head, cheek and mouth.

“Do you have any broken bones or other injuries?”

He looked away for a moment and paused, “No, that’s it.”

She nodded and then handed him a salve tin. “This’ll help with any additional bruising and pain. Apply it liberally.”

“What made you an expert at healing?” Hermione was startled by his question, having gotten used to his deliberate lack of attention.

“War.” 

She didn’t mean to be blunt but the exhaustion of the day was taking its toll. He just stared at her, a slight grimace forming. 

“Of course. Saint Potter probably needed patching up from time to time.” 

She didn’t like the tone of distaste that coloured the statement. 

“I also had a bit of personal experience with healing a rather nasty wound.”

Malfoy stilled. 

The rapidly tensing atmosphere was broken with a loud pop. 

“Tippi has brought much food. And champagne for Miss Pansy. Would Master Draco like fresh clothes?”

Malfoy looked startled by the offer, as if the concept of different clothes other than he fraying jumpsuit hadn’t occurred to him.

“I-I think I could use a shower before a change of clothes.”

“Of course. Clothes are in the closet of your room. Take your time.” The enthusiasm in Theo’s voice couldn’t be missed. Malfoy hesitantly gave a small affectionate smile and touched Theo’s shoulder, squeezing it gently. He then navigated the halls towards his accommodations as if he were home. 

Once he left, the room remained silent for a few moments. 

“Fuck.”

Hermione couldn’t have agreed more with Blaise’s sentiments. 

“I’m going to burn Azkaban down.” Pansy hissed.

Hermione was staring at the pile of bloodied cloth and the bottles of healing potions still haphazardly spread across the table, “I’ll join you.”

The raven haired witch shot her a curious look. “Why did you do it?”

Hermione continued to assess the healing items. 

“Not that I don’t appreciate it of course, but… are you really that uncommonly pure? Is that a Gryffindor trait us Slytherins just never learned?”

Hermione snorted, “Pure? No. Stubborn? Yes.”

Blaise chuckled, “Now that sounds more like the lions I remember.”

Hermione rolled her shoulders, attempting to stretch the tired muscles “The Wizengamot wasn’t looking for justice. They wanted to show power. I don’t like bullies.”

“Draco was a bully.” Blaise stated calmly.

“Yes, and I didn’t like him.” A tiny voice in the back of her head whispered that that wasn’t necessarily true. She ignored it. 

“Well, for whatever reason you decided to go along with this plan, thank you. I know it wasn’t for us but still, we appreciate it more than you could know.” The sincerity in Pansy’s voice was evident. 

Hermione felt awkward with the intense stares she was receiving. 

“Oh, stop ogling the poor girl. It’s time to celebrate Draco’s release.” Blaise snapped his fingers and champagne flutes appeared. 

“Shouldn’t we wait for Malfoy?” Hermione inquired. 

“Probably, but I can’t lie, I need alcohol to deal with the icky feelings I currently have.” 

Hermione couldn’t agree more and graciously accepted the glass of dry champagne from Blaise. The bubbles tickled her nose as she finished the glass in one long sip.

“Damn, I didn’t know the Golden Girl could drink like that.” Blaise chuckled. 

She typically couldn’t and felt the warmth spread across her chest. 

“Such an overachiever in everything she does.” Hermione smiled at the good natured jest from Blaise and accepted a refill. She knew she needed to slow down but wanted to enjoy the reprieve from heavy thoughts for a few moments longer. She polished off the second glass almost as quickly. 

“Who is?”

Hermione quickly looked up to see Draco walking into the room. In a pair of black trousers and a crisp white shirt, he looked closer to the wizard she remembered. The layer of grime that had coated his body was gone. His bruises seemed marginally better. 

“You washed off the Murtlap essence. That’s a waste of a good healing potion.” The words slipped out of Hermione’s mouth, tasting of champagne. 

He looked slightly surprised that she had addressed him.

“I’m sure the Master of the House is good for it.” She couldn’t stop the slight giggle and Malfoy tilted his head in intrigue. 

“I’ll have to reapply it again. You’re causing work for me already, Malfoy.”

He looked curiously at her, champagne glass in hand. 

“Am I to believe that Hermione Granger is a lush and lightweight?” 

She shook her head slightly, feeling her curls bounce. “I’m not a lightweight or a lush. We are celebrating your release.”

“And our marriage?” 

Hermione let out a long sigh. 

“No. Let’s not talk about that right now. I really don’t want to talk or think about that right now.”

Malfoy stared at her for a moment. His jaw shifted as if he was holding back something he didn’t want to say and he gave a firm nod and walked away. 

Hermione’s heart ached slightly at the look that had been on Malfoy’s face and she didn’t know why. If she had been sober perhaps she could have figured it out but for a brief moment she could have sworn she saw shame. 

She decided that was enough champagne for now. 

Watching from a plush loveseat, she observed as friends with a winding history reunited once more after five long years. 

Theo and Blaise bickered good naturedly over the best vintage of champagne. Pansy fussed over Malfoy’s wounds attempting to reapply the Murtlap essence but he refused. He looked frantic for a brief moment before calming down but Pansy gave a small shrug and smile and let it drop. Some things would take time. 

Hermione sat, playing the role of a spectator. It was bizarre. Their friend had just escaped Azkaban and they happily chatted as if it was a regular old day.

After another hour of surface level small talk, Pansy and Blaise took their leave. Pansy stepped forward, as if to embrace Malfoy and he took a small step back before catching himself. She smiled sadly but it was gone with a flick of her short hair. They flooed away, promising to reach out soon. 

Theo invited them to stay, he had more than enough rooms but neither Malfoy nor Hermione accepted. Hermione was shocked when Malfoy gave a small shake of his head and muttered he was tired. Surely Nott Manor provided more comfort than her home. 

“I live in a small cottage.” She blurted out the words.

His face remained neutral. 

“I’m aware. Theo wrote to me explaining what the law requires. He mentioned you had accommodations waiting for me. I don’t see a reason to delay the inevitable.” The words were said with a slight distaste that Hermione had to stop herself from rising to. They didn’t need to start fighting half a second into the arrangement.

She turned to the Floo, calculating how many days there were in five years. 

Too many. 

Theo gave them both a small wave as Malfoy entered the Floo beside her. 

When they arrived, Hermione stepped out first. She turned on the lights, revealing her home.

She felt like she was seeing it for the first time. Where she once saw comfort, she now saw slight clutter. Where she saw quaint before, she now saw antiquated. 

Oh god what is he thinking?

Hermione took off her outer robe and started to stew. How dare he judge her home? She had invited him in, and had saved his life. If he had the audacity to turn his nose up at her beloved cottage she would slap him for a second time in her life, only this time harder.

She turned, ready to defend her sanctuary from a blonde twat but instead she found him looking out the large window of her sitting room. It was now evening and the sun was creeping lower in the sky. His pale fingers, long like a piano player, were splayed out against the glass. 

“There’s so much light.” The voice was almost a whisper. His brows were raised, as if he was shocked by the phenomenon that happened every evening. “I didn’t have a window in Azkaban.”

All the anger in Hermione disappeared with those sad words. 

No sun. 

No sky.

That had been Malfoy’s reality for a year. 

“Are you hungry?” She had remembered him picking at the food Tippi had brought. 

“No.” He didn’t turn, just continued to stare for a moment before removing his hands. 

“Alright. Well let me show you around I guess.”

It was so painfully awkward. 

She showed him the kitchen, explaining the Muggle appliances that inhabited the space. He looked distrustingly at the fridge but accepted that food could be found there. She showed him where the toilets were and felt somehow nervous when he approved the shampoo with a small nod. He explored the guest room, seemingly not too displeased. What she hadn’t expected was his reaction to the library. When they stepped into the book-filled space, he gave a soft sigh. She watched as he walked up to the spines, inspecting the titles. 

“Feel free to read what you like. I warn you though, there are a lot of Muggle books in here.”

He snorted but said nothing. 

When the tour was done, they awkwardly stood in the living room once more. 

“I’m going to take a shower and get ready for bed. If you need anything, I’ll be out in a bit.”

Somehow disclosing that she would be naked anywhere in the immediate vicinity of him caused her cheeks to flush hot and she quickly turned to grab her sleep clothes from the bedroom. No way would she be caught roaming the halls in only a towel. After she gathered her clothes, she quickly locked herself in the lavatory. She silenced the room for good measure and leaned against the door, heart pounding. 

While Hermione had thought about a lot of the logistics of having someone live with her, she hadn’t thought of the emotional rollercoaster living with Malfoy would be.

God, she didn’t know if she could do this. 

It’s a bit late, don’t you think?

Her inner voice could be such a cow.

She quickly stripped and stepped into the shower, then paused for a brief moment and stepped out quickly, grabbing her wand and making sure it was easily accessible. 

Couldn’t hurt to be careful. 

She took her time, massaging her scalp meticulously. It had been such a long day. One of those days where it felt like you had lived three lives. She washed her body twice, hoping to relax her tight muscles under the water. She dried off her entire body when she finished and then slathered herself in a thick cream. She carefully applied her required hair products and dried her curls. Then she stretched for a few minutes, trying to eat up time. Finally, she couldn’t delay it any longer.

Hermione stepped out of the steamy room, dressed in her shorts and a large sleep shirt. She had debated wearing nicer sleepwear but shook her head at the absurd thought. She wasn’t trying to impress anyone. 

“Malfoy, the bathrooms open if you– Malfoy?” Hermione stopped short of the sofa where he sat, having not moved since she had gone to go ready for bed.

She wasn’t sure what she was witnessing.  

Sitting on Malfoy’s lap was Crookshanks. The old beast was doing what he often did for Hermione to provide comfort, rubbing his head against Malfoy’s arms and kneading his paws into the wizard's legs. Malfoy sat frozen, thick tears streaming down his face. He wasn't making any noise, just staring down at the half-kneazle.

Hermione rushed forward, “I’m so sorry Malfoy, Crookshanks won’t hurt you!” She tried to shoo the offending animal away but Malfoy quickly raised his hands to stop her.

“No, no, he’s fine, uh I-I’m not scared.”

“But… you’re…”

Malfoy continued to stare at Crookshanks.

“I haven’t been touched with this much affection in a long time.” His whispered voice cracked. 

For a brief moment everything stilled and then his face shattered into what Hermione would forever remember as the most heart-breaking expression she had ever seen. His face became blotchy, even the patches of visible skin on his head flushed. He didn’t try to hide the rivets of tears falling from his eyes, his hands deep in the fur of her cat. Snot began to trickle from his nostrils and Hermione almost felt embarrassed but Malfoy didn’t seem to care. He gently grasped the heavy feline and hugged him close, nuzzling his wet face into thick orange fur that only muffled the loud whimpers slightly. Crookshanks, usually not one for such obvious displays of affection, sensed the desperation and allowed it. 

Hermione felt her own eyes burn and she bit her lip as tears started to spill out. She gripped the hem of her shirt to stop her arms from reaching out to embrace the broken man before her. She somehow knew that it would be a step too much. 

So she stood and watched as Draco Malfoy, her husband, her childhood bully, a convicted Death Eater, wept at the innocent touch of an orange half-blooded cat.

~~

The next morning Hermione awoke to the beams of sunlight breaking through her curtains. For a brief moment she couldn’t remember the events of the previous day but when she did her eyes widened. 

She was married.

Draco Malfoy was in her home. Their home?

She had watched him break down while hugging her cat. 

How do you act around a person after that? 

She quickly got up, threw on her robe and tiptoed into the bathroom, praying she was up before him. Somehow that felt like getting the upper hand.

She brushed her teeth and splashed her face with water. Turning to leave, she hesitated and instead quickly cast some beauty charms. Minimal, but still effective. She didn’t let herself think about it too much before opening the door to leave. 

Hermione walked slowly, keeping her footsteps soft. Her heart was pounding. She felt like a monster would jump out of a corner. 

When she got to the living room she noted all the lights from the night before were still on. She was about to shut them off when she halted. 

Malfoy apparently had never made it to his room. 

Once she realised he needed a private moment to grieve his past year, Hermione had gone to her own room. She had shown him his bedroom and figured he would find his way there once he collected himself. She had even forgotten her nightly checklist. She had assessed her wards and made sure her bag was where it needed to be prior to the ceremony. 

Instead Malfoy was sprawled across her sofa. He still wore the slacks and white button down, though they were creased and crumpled now. His long arms were above his head, splayed out in a sleep pose. His face looked the most relaxed she had seen it, ever. As children he usually was glaring or sneering when he looked in her direction and in all recent encounters had been terrified or carefully blank. He looked so young as he slept, with his mouth slightly opened. 

Crookshanks was curled up against his side, his head and upper paws resting assuredly on his chest. 

That’s why he didn’t wake me up for food.

Hermione wasn’t sure what overcame her in that moment, but she softly padded to her library and retrieved a small Muggle disposable camera. Making sure the flash wouldn’t go off, she quickly snapped the strange moment before her and then hid the evidence back in her desk drawer. 

When she came back to the living room, the odd pair were still asleep.

She quietly made her breakfast and a pot of tea. Lingering work was completed at the kitchen table. She stayed in her pyjamas and robe lounging softly around the house. 

The two continued to sleep. 

Hermione wondered when the last time Malfoy had slept well had been.

As morning turned into afternoon, he finally stirred. She watched from the kitchen table while he slowly stretched his arms wide rather boyishly, opened his eyes, blinked a few times and then quickly sat up. Crookshanks yowled and trotted to the kitchen, immediately sitting by his bowl to announce his intentions. 

“Good morning. Well, it’s actually the afternoon.” Hermione greeted, pouring kibble into the bowl.

Malfoy stood quickly, looking like he had been caught in some unspeakable act. 

“I must have fallen asleep,” he cleared his throat. His movements and tone were formal. He just stood there looking at his surroundings, like he was unsure of what to do with himself. It was almost painful to watch.

Hermione decided to put him out of his misery, “Tea?”

He glanced at her and then patted down his wrinkled clothes. 

“I should freshen up first.”

Hermione almost grinned. A day out of Azkaban and the peacock she had remembered was slowly coming through. 

He turned and stared down the corridor, head swivelling between the different doors. 

“One at the end of the hall is your room. I left a toothbrush for you by the tap. It’s the door across from your room.”

He didn’t reply, just walked to where she had directed him.

Hermione had looked down for only a few moments before she heard footsteps leading to the toilet and the door click. 

After some time Malfoy stepped out. He was wearing a baggy plain white long sleeve shirt  and a loose fitting pair of grey tracksuit bottoms. The cotton material hung off his thin frame. His long feet were veiled in cheap cotton socks. His Azkaban tattoo was a glaring mark against his long neck. The bruises on his face were lighter in colour and the slight shine revealed he had reapplied the salve she had given him. 

All in all he looked ridiculous. 

She could tell he was deeply uncomfortable as he stretched the material away from his body. 

Hermione had to admit that when she had purchased the items she had had a good laugh at the idea of Malfoy wearing such casual clothes. Never in her life has she’d seen him dressed so leisurely. Even as children, he was often sporting fine sweaters, pressed collars and dragonhide boots.

“You look…”

“Fucking hideous, Granger, what are these?” He was staring at the trackies in disbelief. 

Hermione felt her heckles raise, “Be happy I got you anything, Malfoy. Show proper appreciation or I’ll make sure to fill your wardrobe with nothing but trackies and football shirts.” She wouldn’t but she didn’t want him to know that. 

“Fine. Thank you for these… clothes.”

He came to the table, moving slowly as he lowered himself into a chair. 

“Tea? It’s chamomile.” She lifted a mug she had already filled for him. 

“I hate chamomile.”

She was about to snap that he could make his own but he carefully took the mug from her. He wrapped his hands around the cup, savouring the steam as it wafted up to his face, eyes closed. After a moment he took a sip. A content sigh escaped his lips with a small smile. 

“I could make you a different type.” Hermione couldn’t believe she had offered. She had been so ready to snap at him earlier but watching as he enjoyed such a small pleasure, she couldn’t help it. 

“No, it's fine. This is good.”

“What tea do you like?”

He opened his eyes, knocked out of his thoughts.

“Why? Are you going to poison me with it tomorrow?”

The tone was so familiar that Hermione barked out a laugh, “Of course not. I wouldn’t be nearly so obvious.”

He hummed as he took another tea, “Chamomile really is shit. It tastes like pond water.”

“Why are you drinking it then? Nobody is forcing you.”

“It’s warm. I haven’t felt warm in a while.”

The way the admission just came out so calmly, like it wasn’t heartbreaking. 

“Well, what tea do you like? If you don’t tell me I’m just going to make whatever I drink.”

“So Earl Grey in the morning and chamomile for the afternoon?”

Hermione felt stunned. 

“How did you know that?”

He took another sip, wincing slightly at the taste. 

“We were classmates for a long time. It’s normal for me to have noticed a few things.” 

Except it wasn’t. 

She still remembered how often Ron had had to ask her what tea she wanted when they had been involved. It had always annoyed her but then she’d chastised herself. What man would notice something like that? 

Apparently her new husband had. 

Hermione took a large gulp of her own tea, burning her tongue. 

“If you must know, I like Earl Grey.” 

She nodded her head at him, thoughts still swimming.

“I made some lunch, would you like any?” She stood up to grab the sandwiches she had prepared, trying to change the subject. “Don’t expect anything fancy.”

“Anything that isn’t colourless or tasteless gruel will be a massive improvement.” 

Again, the ease he spoke about his imprisonment made Hermione pause for a moment. 

She placed the plate in front of him. He eagerly reached for the food and began to eat, finishing half in just a few bites. He was taking another sip of his hated tea when he froze. 

“Are you okay?” The colour of his face had taken on a slightly green hue. He slowly chewed the bite that still remained in his mouth, a closed fist pressed against his lips. 

“Malfoy?”

He shot up from the table, the chair skidding back loudly and ran. Hermione, startled at the sudden movement, quickly followed him, worried. 

“What’s the matt–” before she could finish the question he slammed the door of the toilet. From the other side she could hear the sound of loud retching. 

Right at that moment, the whooshing sound of the Floo filled her home. 

Shaking ash from his red hair, Ron stepped out and Hermione felt her face pale. 

She had forgotten to talk to Ron.

 

Notes:

Eeek chapter 7! How time flies when you have no patience and want to post more lol.

Thank you for all the love and support!

Big thanks to rompeprop and noxhunter, my amazing and beautiful betas!

I wrote this with a cold from hell on my cracked iPhone. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 8

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
“Hey, Hermione.”

Her heart was beating erratically. She could still hear gagging and heaving but they were becoming fainter. He had caught the sound of Ron’s arrival.

She glanced behind her briefly at the door and then walked towards Ron, hoping he hadn’t noticed.

“What are you doing here?” She sounded airy.

He continued to dust some soot off his arm.

“I haven’t heard from you in ages. I sent an Owl to you last week but didn’t get a response. Figured you were holed up with creature work again. I wanted to make sure you were okay, you know, feeding yourself and taking breaks.”

Hermione felt her heart squeeze.

This was Ron.

One of her best friends, her former lover. He had been thinking of her, wondering if she had been eating in her frenzy to change the world.

And she had been lying to him.

“There… there’s something—” the words were almost silent coming out of her dry mouth as Ron bent over to pat Crookshanks on the back. The cat had never fully warmed to him after old grudges from being wrongly accused of eating Ron’s pet rat.

“Ginny mentioned you had seemed off when you had dinner at Grimmauld. Just thought I’d stop by and see where your head’s been.” He straightened and looked at her, “Also thought I’d bring some news. I know you were worried about Malfoy. I don’t like the way we ended things last at the Burrow. I should have come by sooner and apologised. You wouldn’t be you if you didn’t stand up for stuff like that.”

As he kept talking, that familiar ringing began in Hermione’s ears. She felt like she couldn’t take in enough oxygen. “Well, it’s okay Hermione. He didn’t get the Kiss. I’m not sure how honestly, it’s been kept very hush hush at the DMLE. We only found out today. I went to your office and found out you had taken a few days off. That hag of a boss of yours seemed a little miffed by the entire thing to be honest, she rather rudely told me–”

“Ron.” Her voice was loud now, almost too loud. He jumped, startled by her volume.

“Yeah?”

“I know about Malfoy’s stay.”

Ron gave her a knowing look, “Oh I knew it. I told Harry it must have been you. How’d you do then? Go on, tell me.”

She was going to be the one vomiting next. The queasiness rolled around her stomach.

“Maybe you should sit down.” That seemed to catch him off guard.

“Why are you being jumpy?” He took a step towards her, eyes scanning down her form, like he was searching for a wound or a threat. Ron had always worried about her, always wanted to be her protector even though he also held the capacity to hurt just as much as he saved.

“I found a way to save him. Malfoy. I figured out how to not only save him from the Kiss, but set him free from Azkaban.”

Ron didn’t seem wholly impressed, “Okay. How?”

“I married him.” She practically threw the words at him.

Ron stood very still.

He didn’t move, didn’t speak, didn’t react.

Hermione felt herself rush out an explanation, trying to patch the rips she felt forming between them. “It was the only way. The Wizengamot didn’t care about righting wrongs, they just wanted Malfoy gone. They were using an old law to do their dirty work, so I did too. The Gallows Marriage Law. I proposed at the Kiss, and it granted a full stay. It isn’t forever. We can separate in three years, divorce in five.”

That pulled him out of his daze.

“You couldn’t drop it, could you? You couldn’t let the Wizengamot handle this. You just had to become a part of it. And for what? Malfoy? A monster who did the shit they pinned him for. He’s a Death Eater, Hermione!”

“He didn’t have a choice! We talked about it!”

“The thing is, Hermione, you don’t know that.” His voice was eerily calm. “You’re basing that off what exactly? A gut feeling about a kid who made our lives a nightmare?”

He had a point there. Hermione didn’t have proof that Malfoy hadn’t wanted to be exactly where he was during the war. She just couldn’t match the boy she would glance at in the library to the cold blood killer that the Wizarding world had painted him to be. It had felt so solid before, but standing in front of Ron, she couldn’t quite remember why.

“Why does he get under your skin like that? Even in school when he was calling you slurs and you know, treating you like you weren’t a person, you still worried about that bastard.”

Hermione’s gaze darted to the silent door.

Wrong move.

Ron’s blue eyes followed hers.

“Is he here right now?” Ron’s eyebrows were pulled down, creases forming between them. His freckled skin was a deep red and Hermione swore she could see steam release from his nostrils.

“Ronald…” she had her hands out, trying to placate the building rage before her.

“Why the fuck is he here?” The words were so low, so cold. A sharp contrast to the palpable heat radiating off him.

Hermione stepped closer to Ron, “It’s a part of the law. We must live together for a year.” He scowled, his glare hardening. “I didn’t just run into this, thoughtless. I planned it out, I knew what I was getting myself into. It was my choice.”

“Really? You chose to be a Death Eater’s wife? Married to someone who hated your guts and would rather watch you bleed on his floor than stand up to dear Mummy and Daddy?”

Hermione heard the door behind her bang open.

Oh, no.

“Oi, Weasel, here to give us your well wishes?” Malfoy didn’t look like he had just been sick. Even with uneven hair and ridiculous clothes, he held himself with all the grace he had been bred to. He strolled into the living room with his hands in his pockets at a leisurely pace. “I’m sure my wife would have loved for you to have made the ceremony, but it was a bit of a quick affair. Love at first sight, you know how these things are.”

Hermione wanted to slap that smug grin off his face. “Ron, ignore him.” Her hands were firmly pressed into his chest now.

“You absolute fucking coward. You couldn’t own up to what you did and now you’ve roped her into saving your pathetic ass.” Ron was practically spitting the words.

Malfoy tsked and slowly shook his head, “Now I think you’re a little mixed up there. See, Granger was the one that proposed to me. It was a rather incandescent proclamation, standing in front of the entire Wizengamot and declaring her intentions.”

“She only did that to save you, you spineless git!” Hermione was now pushing against Ron as he inched forward. Ron’s strong frame was a sharp contrast to Malfoy’s frailty.

“Ron, calm down! I told you why I proposed. It’s not some sordid affair! I did it to save his life, that’s it! Now stop being ridiculous. You know me! You just said that I wouldn’t be me if I hadn’t done something!” Hermione gave him a small shove in hopes it would shock him enough to stop him from retaliating. He looked down at her, some recognition entering his eyes at his previous words. He took a deep breath and seemed to relax partially, still glaring but less ready to attack.

Malfoy smirked with a slight tilt of his head, “That’s a good Weasel. You should listen to my wife. Don’t be a sore loser. If it had been meant to be between the two of you, I’m sure it would have already happened.”

Ron pushed past Hermione, causing her to fall on her backside. Her wand clattered out of her pocket and under the sofa. Hermione rushed forward on her hands and knees, trying to retrieve it.

“You fucking bastard!” He grabbed Malfoy by the front of his shirt as his fist came down with a sickening crack. Malfoy attempted to pull free but was outmatched in his half-emaciated state. Instead, he clawed his nails into the hand tightly gripping him. Ron reared back again, a loud crunch echoing in the room as he broke Malfoy’s nose. Blood started to pour out. “You don’t have daddy to run to anymore, do you? He got the Kiss, like you should have.”

The low blow angered Malfoy visibly, he snarled and spat into Ron’s face, causing him to recoil in disgust.

Malfoy sneered wide, eyes manic, blood coating his teeth. “Fuck you. Why don’t you just accept you’ll always be second best in everything you do? Second best to Potter and now second best to me.”

Ron let out a frenzied scream and punched Malfoy in the gut, hard. The blonde wizard doubled over and fell on the ground as Ron released the now stained shirt. Malfoy was making loud gasping sounds, his forehead pressed into the wood of the floorboards.

Hermione finally grasped her wand that had rolled to the centre of the sofa.

Ron was gearing up to kick Malfoy when Hermione pressed the tip of her wand into his neck.

“Don’t you dare.”

Ron held up his hands in surrender at her icy words. He turned to her, looking incredulous.

“Really? He started it!”

“And now I’m finishing it. If you can’t talk without deciding to punch someone, this conversation is over.”

Ron gaped at her, “You heard what he said!”

“I also heard what you said. I also saw you throw the first punch. The only punches actually. I thought maybe we could talk about this reasonably, but I was wrong. You should leave.”

Ron stared at her in disbelief. “You’re kicking me out? But you’re letting him stay here?”

“He lives here.” The words felt wrong in her mouth.

Ron stared at her for another moment and then huffed, shaking his head slightly. “Fine. I’m going. But I have to say for someone called the Brightest Witch of her Age, I can’t believe you did something so fucking stupid.”

Hermione flinched at the insult but held her wand on him as he walked to the Floo. Without another word or glance, he threw down the powder and was gone. She continued to stare at the empty impression left in the ash.

It was Ron.

Her friend. Her former lover.

And he had just cracked something in her chest that she wasn’t sure would easily heal.

She turned around and knelt next to Malfoy who was still wheezing. A small puddle of blood had gathered beneath him and was seeping into the grey of his tracksuit pants.

“I’m going to help you up onto the sofa so I can heal you. Okay?” He didn’t say anything, just dipped his head ever so slightly. She came next to him and slid his arm around her shoulders, slowly standing and bringing him with her. He groaned loudly. Hermione bit her tongue to stop herself from saying something rude. She had the decency to at least staunch the bleeding first.

They slowly trudged to the cushions. Even though he was thinner than he should be, Malfoy was still dense. She tried to settle him down gently, but he landed with a wet, “Oof.”

She pulled off her bathrobe, throwing it on the floor. She didn’t know where to begin. Bruises were blooming under his eyes and along his sharp jaw. The blood running down his chin was beginning to clot into small chunks that made Hermione’s stomach turn.

“I’m taking your shirt off.”

“How forward of you, Mrs. Malfoy.” The words were half wheezed.

“Don’t tempt me to leave you here bloody and beaten.” He laughed but it was swiftly followed by a hard wince, and he curled into himself slightly.

She pulled the now maroon material over his head, taking care to limit skin contact and not to jostle any of his wounds.

Hermione saw hints of scarring across his flesh but focused on the growing bruising across his ribs.

“Your Weasel really did a number.” She glared at him holding her wand to heal his broken nose and by her best guess, fractured rib.

“You just had to goad him. You couldn’t have stayed in the toilet.” She conjured a small rag and wetted it with an Aguamenti and began wiping blood off his face.

“Maybe you’re alright with him talking shit to you, but I’m not alright with him talking shit about me.”

Hermione wiped hard against his bruised jaw, causing him to flinch backwards.

“I don’t let him talk shit to me.”

He scoffed, “So he goes off on you worse than that? You know I never understood why you were friends with people who constantly treated you like rubbish in school.”

“I distinctly remember you treating me like rubbish, Malfoy.”

“Yes, but I was never your friend. I never claimed to care about you.”

Hermione didn’t know how to respond. She had realised sometime during their third year, or maybe even earlier, that she could lose Harry and Ron’s friendship, especially when she told them something they didn’t agree with. Instead of saying anything, she conjured her bottle of Murtlap Essence and gently dabbed it on his new bruises.

“Can you please stop getting yourself beaten? I don’t want to start a fund for healing supplies.”

She stood, content with his decidedly less bloodied and battered appearance.

“Does the Department of Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures pay more than I imagined? You own your own home; you live comfortably, and you can pay for an entire other person in short notice. I was under the impression the Ministry didn’t pay that well.”

Hermione sighed and walked to the sink to wash the dried blood from her hands.

“Along with The Order of Merlin, I got a sizable amount of money as reparations for what I had done for the war. Apparently, it was seized from several wizarding families.” She raised an eyebrow at him and he met her with a raised brow of his own. “I tried to refuse but it showed up in my Gringotts vault anyway. I let it sit for a year but all that did was accrue interest. I ended up deciding I might as well use it and bought the cottage.”

Malfoy gave a devilish grin. His teeth were still stained pink from blood near his gum line. “Darling, are you telling me we’re minted?”

Hermione felt her cheeks flush hot, “I’m comfortable. It’s not Sacred Twenty-Eight money by any means but we’ll get by.” She conjured another shirt from the wardrobe in the guestroom and handed it to Malfoy who slipped it on.

“I do have money, you know.” His voice was muffled as he pulled his head through the material, “Theo told me he’s inquired about my Gringotts vaults.”

“Are there still galleons in your vault? I thought they took large portions for repairs and reparations. I’m pretty sure Malfoy coins paid for this very home.”

“Not vault, Granger, vaults. They did seize many of my assets. The thing about taking money from a very large sum is that even if you cut it in half, the half that’s left is still enough to fund an entire life. Or more like a few lives.”

Hermione’s head was spinning. She knew that the Malfoy’s held wealth, but she hadn’t been sure exactly how much. She couldn’t conceptualise that sort of money.

“Anyways, Theo found out it’s still being held up by the DMLE. Apparently, they were expecting to be able to parcel it away for Ministry funds but since I didn’t get the Kiss, they have to do some backtracking. I don’t have access currently but should soon.” He looked a little bit put off but continued. “I’ll pay you back for everything once I have my keys.”

“What about the Manor?” She wasn’t sure why she wanted to know its fate.

“I still own the Manor.”

“I’m not living there.” The words left her mouth quickly. Her cheeks felt hot at the weak admission, but she didn’t care. If they had to live together for a year it would be in her home. She wouldn’t live there.

“I have no interest in living in the Manor. Plus, Mother is still there.”

This surprised Hermione.

Narcissa Malfoy had seemingly vanished entirely. Lying to Voldemort had resulted in Harry’s life being spared. That paired with the fact she hadn’t really done anything in the war other than be married to Lucius and host Tom against her will, she got a year of house-arrest and was then released. The last Hermione had heard, Narcissa had been present for her late husband’s Kiss and then retreated to some Black property still in her name in France. No news had been released about her since.

“I thought she was abroad.”

Malfoy picked lint from his bloodied pants, “Once I was taken to Azkaban she came back to the Manor.”

Hermione tried to recall those who had been present for the Kiss.

“I didn’t see her at Azkaban.”

Malfoy cleared his throat and looked past Hermione’s shoulder. His features were muted, his eyes not quite flat but close. Without the magic suppressing potion being administered daily, its effects would quickly wear off. “After I was tried, they asked if I had a final request. Much like before the Kiss.” He looked off thoughtfully for a moment, “I told them my only request was for my mother not to be allowed to attend.”

“You barred your own mother?” Hermione couldn’t help the disbelieving tone in her voice. That felt cruel, even for Malfoy.

He looked at her sharply, “As much as this might surprise you, I care for my mother. I didn’t think watching her only child lose his soul and be left to rot would be good for her.”

“Maybe that should have been her choice.”

“Sometimes we make choices for the ones we love to protect them.”

His words were so familiar. Malfoy’s face held the same sad resolvedness hers had years ago. Any judgments she had once felt were gone, leaving lonely understanding in its place.

“Why did you agree, Malfoy?” The question had looped in her mind in some iteration or another since the moment the acceptance had left his chapped lips. “You always hated me.”

He rolled his eyes at this, “I never hated you, Granger.”

She furrowed her brows.

“I never liked you much, but I didn’t hate you. I knew I was supposed to though. So, I said what needed to be said, did what needed to be done to play the part. It wasn’t personal.”

“It felt pretty personal to me,” the words tasted bitter in her mouth.

“I remember you and your friends being sharp-tongued yourselves. There was that particular barb about me buying my way on to the Slytherin Quidditch Team. You were wrong, of course. I wanted the chance to beat the beloved Saint Potter, and Father only helped rectify that. It was still rather nasty of you to point it out.”

“Oh yes, basically equal to calling someone a foul name.”

He frowned. “I never claimed to be a good person. I did what I thought I needed to. What I had always been taught to do. I recognise now how damaging that kind of thought process can be.”

Hermione absentmindedly touched her forearm. Having taken her robe off to heal Malfoy, the irritated scarring was visible. Malfoy’s eyes trailed to where the words cut in. “Right. That. I am sorry that happened to you. I know you probably don’t believe me, but I couldn’t do anything to stop it, despite what Weasel says.”

She wanted to snap at him that he could have done something, anything for her while she had been screaming on the floor of his ancestral home but knew the anger wasn’t rooted in reason.

“I know. You didn’t stand a chance against your Aunt. You did what you could, and you lied for us.”

She sounded exhausted. She felt exhausted. “So that’s why you accepted my proposal? You didn’t hate me?”

“I accepted because I didn’t want to die.”

The statement was so plain, no frills in sight. Just a simple truth.

“You seemed so calm when we met at the Ministry.” Hermione remembered how confused she had been by it.

“I lied. Sometimes I do that. At that point I had already cried, begged, and bartered and all of it had fallen on deaf ears. I figured I could pretend, just for a moment, to be calm and collected in the face of my fate. Turns out I am not like Potter. As soon as you left, I vomited on that shiny table.”

Hermione was surprised at his candour. She had been continuously astonished at all the information he willingly shared with her.

“Why did you say any of that stuff when we met? About being curious about the freedoms my life had in comparison to yours?”

He picked at the corners of a throw pillow he had pulled into his lap.

“I thought I was about to die. Figured why not shake things up with a little bit of radical truth? The look on your face was priceless.”

“And now? Why are you being so truthful with me now? You thrived on your little secrets and games as a child.”

“Well, I’m not a child anymore, am I?” He continued to trace the design of the pillow with a long finger. “I’m tired of the mind games. It’s hard work pretending to hate someone. We are going to be stuck with each for a while. I don’t have a wand, I currently have no money, and there’s that matter of the Unbreakable Vow,” he held up the chained hand that mirrored her own, “I just decided that being at war with you felt like a lot of effort. A thing you might not know about the disgustingly wealthy is we are lazy by nature.”

Hermione was stunned by the confession. Malfoy was trying to appear calm through his languid pose and playful banter, but she could see the nerves in the way his voice was a little too forced and his movements a little too sharp.

“So… you want a truce?” Hermione slowly sat in a recliner that faced the sofa he occupied.

“Yes, Granger. A truce is probably a good place to start.”

Hermione thought back to the picture she had snapped of Draco and Crookshanks on the sofa. She could have sworn that that would be the strangest turn of the day.

Hermione hated being wrong.

“Fine, a truce. If we are friends now—”

“I didn’t say frie—”

She cut him off, “If we are friends now, I think I should be truthful too.”

He looked curiously at her.

“Your hair is awful. We need to fix it.”

He immediately reddened and touched his hand to his unevenly shorn head.

“Brutal, Granger. What do you expect me to do?”

“I’m going to fully shave your head.”

He looked terrified for a moment, sitting up stiff.

“I’m not terrible at haircuts. Shaving should be easier. We’ll use magic to make sure I don’t accidentally cut you.”

The blatant fear in his eyes made Hermione’s anger flare at the terrible Aurors she had encountered at the prison.

“It’s either that or you keep looking like… that.” She motioned towards him.

“Thanks. I love having my traumatic experience thrown in my face. Fantastic way to start a truce.” As he complained he stood up, shifting back and forth on his feet. “Fine. It can’t look worse I suppose.”

She led him to the kitchen table where two cold forgotten cups of tea sat. The room was filled with burnt orange lighting as the sun made its descent. She sat him down and surveyed the damage. Longer hairs clustered around his ears and the prominence at the back of his head.

“I’m going to touch you, is that okay?” He agreed with a nervous hum. Hesitantly, she ran her fingers across the prickles of blonde hair, trying to discern the longest length. Her nails scraped against a patch of skin on his temple.

“It’s going to be very short. We can’t salvage much length, but you won’t be completely bald.”

She positioned her wand and began muttering the modified Diffindo.

“First a healer, now a hairdresser. Did the war also teach you this skill?”

Hermione brushed some hair off his shoulder, the blonde glittering in the lamplight as it fell.

“Ron and Harry got a few trims from me on the run, but I learned the spell at Hogwarts.”

“I seemed to have missed that Charms lesson.”

“I learned it from Lavender Brown actually.”

Hermione continued to work quietly; Malfoy’s head never strayed from facing straight ahead.

“I don’t remember you two being particularly close. I only saw you spend time together when she was dating Weasley.”

“We were roommates. Not particularly close by any means. She was usually insisting I learn some beauty charm or another.”

The sun had finally set. The windows of the kitchen faced a country field. Nothing but blackness waited for them on the other side of the glass pane.

“I saw her. After the Battle.”

His words floated away from Hermione. Her wand paused above his head.

She hadn’t expected it. She also hadn’t expected the hard pang in her chest.

She looked away from the task at hand and stared at the window. Malfoy’s form was visible in the reflection on the glass. It was warped from the angle of the pane and the glow of the lamp, but she could see his eyes were closed. She continued to study his mirrored image. Curious from the lack of contact, he opened his eyelids, catching her gaze. Instead of speaking or moving, he focused on her reflection in return.

Hermione wasn’t sure how long they stayed like that. The reflection granted her a level of cover, as if it wasn’t really Malfoy she was looking at. It wasn’t direct eye contact, instead something adjacent. An intensity seemed to build, holding her in a trance.

Finally, Hermione broke the silence, “Yes, me too.”

She held the stare an instant longer and then went back to cutting his hair. They didn’t say anything else after that.

The stare hadn’t been uncomfortable. It carried a mutual understanding of a past that still housed scars. Two people with memories of a girl who was gone, navigating a moment together. Somehow that concept was what Hermione found more unbearable.

She had felt raw. Cracked open. Exposed.

And he had just stared at it.

With a final brush of hair off his shoulders, Hermione stepped away from the chair and the man in it, “Okay, you’re done.”

He continued to stare at the glass. She cast a Scourgify on the wisps of hair that covered her kitchen floor like a light layer of snow.

Snow in June, she mused to herself.

Hermione filled Crookshanks’ bowl, ignoring the wizard who still looked out the window. She checked her wards, made sure her beaded bag still sat by the fireplace and then stood behind Malfoy once again. His posture was slightly hunched but he still sat in the same chair.

“I’m heading to bed. Turn the lights off when you’re done.” She didn’t wait for a response.

As she laid in bed tracing scarred letters, Hermione imagined she could see a girl with a loud laugh and long hair in the constellations above her head. She was hidden amongst stars like Sirius and Regulus.

Like Draco almost had been.

She fell asleep and dreamt of crystal balls filled with pale purple smoke.

Notes:

Yay, chapter 8! So exciting!!

Thank you for the continuous love and support! So excited for what’s to come!

As always, shoutout to the best betas a gal could ask for, rompeprop and noxhunter! Your help is greatly appreciated and forever needed 🙏

I wrote this on my iPhone, sitting in my backyard surrounded by weeds. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 9

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Time was a blur. It flowed and ebbed and often felt like it was conspiring against Hermione. 

She had felt it race in the summers before returning to Hogwarts, trying to grasp onto evenings with her parents.

She had felt it disappear at school, cramming before exams she knew determined her place in a world that didn’t know what to do with her heritage. 

She had felt it stretch long in the Forest of Dean, as days of a war trickled by, filled with fear. 

She had felt it get lost at the Ministry, pushing paperwork no one read or cared about. 

She felt it stop when she saw a pair of grey eyes staring at her from the front page of a newspaper. 

Hermione had experienced time in all of its forms and still it kept surprising her.

“Oh, god I’m late!” She jolted out of her warm covers. Somehow, she had forgotten to set the alarm on her wand while lying in bed the night before. The bizarrely intimate haircut that had barely involved physical contact had thrown her off kilter. Anytime she had forgotten her alarm before, Crookshanks had woken her up for food. Hermione theorised that the current houseguest had something to do with Crookshanks' late rising. 

She threw on the first appropriate pair of robes she found, a beautiful olive green set she favoured, and ran to fix her hair. Once more Hermione thanked the universe for the time saving nature of magic, applying her beauty charms as she brushed her teeth. Once she finished, she bustled to the kitchen, picking up important items along the way. She noticed that every light that had been on the night prior continued to shine in the daytime. She huffed and wasted precious breakfast minutes flipping switches as the kettle boiled. 

Lazy by nature was right. 

“Where are you going?” The subject of her ire was sleepily rubbing his eyes.

“Someone must fund our lavish lifestyle. I took two days off of work, but I have to go back today.”

“Ah, the centaurs will be missing their lead defender.”

Hermione didn’t have time to take part in his witty repertoire. “There’s food in the refrigerator like I showed you. You can Floo to Theo’s if you’d like. If you need me, please Owl. Bathilda likes to be outdoors so just tap twice on the glass of the window in the kitchen and she should come.”

“You named your owl after the author of Hogwarts: A History? That’s a little on the nose, even for you, Granger.” 

She rolled her eyes as she slipped her shoes on. 

“I’m not sure when I’ll be home, it changes day to day.”

“I’ll be counting the minutes,” his droll tone carried from the counter where he was pouring himself a cup of tea. Hermione looked longingly at the fresh pot and then at her watch. 

Blast, she was already five minutes late.

Without further fanfare she Flooed to the Ministry. 

That was approximately the time chaos ensued. 

As she stepped out of the Floo she immediately saw a congregation of people meandering about. As she walked further into the Atrium, a small toad-like man holding a camera happened to turn and his eyes lit up when he caught sight of her. “It’s her!” As if an enchantment had been cast, the horde of people turned and swarmed. 

“Hermione! Hermione! How long has the affair been going on? Does it go back to Hogwarts?”

“Will you be changing your name to Malfoy now that you’re a married woman!”

“Is this the end of the Golden Trio! What does Harry Potter think of your recent marriage!” 

“How does it feel to be married to a known Death Eater who allegedly tortured Muggleborns?”

“Hermione! What do your Muggle parents think of you marrying a known Muggle-Hater?”

Accusations in the form of questions were hurled at her from every direction. The flashes were disorienting as the sea of journalists and photographers rumbled and pressed closer to Hermione. 

“Hermione!” She saw Anthony Goldstein beckoning her from a lift to her right. Without a second thought Hermione pushed through the crowd, inquiries of if their real wedding would be held at the Manor and how many children they wanted trailing her. She burst into the lift, the doors closing behind her as flashes continued.

For a moment Hermione allowed herself to sink her weight against the metal wall, gasping for air. 

“Well that certainly was an entrance.” Anthony’s typically good-natured demeanour seemed forced. 

Hermione looked up, “Thank you, Anthony. I’m not sure how I would have gotten out of there.”

“A few came up to the Department. I realised the mob in the Atrium was looking for you and thought you’d be needing some help.”

“You were right. They were…”

“Feral. Thought they were going to start throwing out hexes there for a moment to see who would get an answer from you.”

She felt drained and the day had just begun. 

“Lydia took care of the ones in the office. Told them where she thought they could stuff their wands.”

Lydia Fletcher was a stern woman. Diligent to the cause of creature welfare but certainly a no-nonsense type of witch. 

“I think Lydia wants to see you in her office.” Hermione sighed as they stepped off the lifts. She had figured as much. 

They walked quietly to their Department. Right as Anthony was turning to head towards his desk, he paused. “You know, I always thought I sensed… something between you and Malfoy in school. I just didn’t realise it was so serious, that all these years later you got married. I’ve got to say I was surprised when I found out. I guess congratulations are in order.” He gave her an awkward toothless smile and shuffled away.

Hermione wanted to melt into the floor. She was too mortified to correct Anthony’s ludicrous notions of childhood romance. She tried to get a hold of herself and practically ran to Lydia’s office. When Hermione was standing in front of the wooden door, she wished she had taken her time instead. 

She hesitantly knocked. 

“Come in.”

Hermione stepped into the simple office. 

“Lydia, I really must apologise about–” she was cut off with a single raised hand. 

“Miss Granger, I am not overly concerned with your private life. It's a rather surprising turn of events, but not my business.” Hermione swallowed hard at that. “You’re a quick learner and you care about your work. You’re also a fair bit quieter than Goldstein, which I appreciate, but we can’t have the press disturbing the office.”

Oh god, was she getting fired?

“I know you just got back but I think it best you work from home until further notice. You kept up well during your holiday last week. You can finish out the day of course. I don’t think any more journalists will be coming back.” 

Lydia’s tone left no room for further negotiation. Hermione nodded her head and mumbled a goodbye, then shut the door behind her and made her way to her own desk. 

As she sat down, Hermione was suddenly viewing the situation from Anthony’s eyes, from Lydia’s.

Hermione Granger, shockingly bright despite her unusual upbringing, choosing to save a criminal. 

Hermione Granger, wife of a Death Eater.

That's how the entire world would see her now.

Ron’s red face suddenly flashed into her thoughts. 

Oh god, what had she done? 

Sad eyes and a rant about a truce and she had irrevocably altered her life for a practical stranger. 

She had to swallow down the bile that was making its way up her throat. 

The hours of the morning ticked by. Hermione tried to focus her attention on organising her current caseload to make home correspondence easier. For brief moments she was able to forget the shock of the morning, but she was never able to fully shake the queasiness in her gut. 

She was fully engrossed in editing when a memo landed silently on her desk. 

I think we should have lunch. Come to my office.

Harry

Hermione set her quill down and prayed he had already thought of food. The idea of fighting her way to the canteen didn’t sound appealing. 

~~

Hermione was afraid to open his door.

After reading Harry’s memo, she had told Lydia she was stepping out. The witch hadn’t even looked up. Hermione had then snuck through the halls of the Ministry, avoiding the busier areas as best she could. It was still early for lunch, so Hermione found an empty lift and rode it to the second floor. As she made her way past the desks of Aurors, she felt the stares. She focused on looking straight ahead. She may have been questioning every life decision she had ever made but damn if she would let it show. 

Finally, she stood before the large wooden door with an ornate handle.

“Hermione, just come in.” Harry’s voice startled her from the other side of the door, but she followed the muffled command. 

“How did you know it was me?” She mumbled as she clicked the door shut behind her.

“I’m a leading Auror, Hermione. I have some tricks up my sleeve.”

She stared at him. 

“Alright, I saw a shadow through the crack under the door. Figured it was you.”

“Spot on detective work.” She sat across from his desk as he pulled out two paper bags. Normally she would have loved the greasy take-away but she found she didn’t quite have an appetite given the conversation to come. 

“So… You found a loophole.” It wasn’t a question.

Hermione looked up from the chip she had been debating eating and saw Harry just staring at her. His face was neutral. There wasn’t visible anger in his green eyes. At least not yet.

If Ron was a bomb, Harry was an arrow. 

There was very little that was showy about him. His dark hair never laid down quite right, his clothes always looked just a little bit creased, and his glasses had a tended to sit askew on the bridge of his nose. You wouldn’t think twice about him in a room, certainly not think he had fought a powerful wizard as a child and won.  

He was sharp-witted and didn’t play games. He struck his target when he had something to say.

Hermione was also keenly aware of how piercing his judgement could be. She had always been proud of how authentic and true he was, but he often saw the world in black and white.

This situation was entirely made of grey. 

“I did.” Her voice shook very minimally.

He continued his penetrating stare and then sighed, his shoulders releasing tension. “You just couldn’t have blown up a wall in Azkaban and gotten him out that way.” 

“You told me not to.”

“I think I would have preferred it honestly. So, this is why you barely replied to our Owls. Ginny wanted to storm your sitting room, but I assured her that you would come out when you wanted to. Kind of wish I would have let her stage the intervention now.”

Hermione’s cheeks burned and she hung her head, but she wouldn’t back down, not yet. It was one thing for her to judge herself but being chided like a child always roused her anger. “You gave me that card for Nott.”

Harry looked dumbfounded, “I gave you his card! I didn’t tell you to marry Malfoy! I thought maybe he would help you find something to reduce his sentence or figure out a way to outlaw the Kiss. I didn’t see this coming!” 

Hermione began picking at her cuticles, rubbing her finger across the cracked line where the nail met skin.

“This is what he found. It's the only thing he found.”

“Very convenient that the only law he could find freed Malfoy completely and tied him to you.”

Hermione glared at him, “What are you suggesting, Harry? I looked for weeks and found nothing. I refused the proposal initially too!”

His eyes still carried that neutrality, but his lips were beginning to curl into a frown. “But you did agree in the end.”

“But Theo couldn’t have known I would!”

Harry sighed again, “People know you, Hermione. From the war, from your work at the Ministry. Hell, Nott probably remembers you from school. He asked a person whom he thought would accept. A person who could make the Ministry take this obscure law seriously.”

Hermione was shaking her head back and forth slowly. “I looked into the law myself. It's real. I didn’t just go on his word alone. I wouldn’t do that.” 

“I know you wouldn’t. But I also know how single minded you can be when you feel like you need to protect someone. It’s a great quality, Hermione, and I just don’t want it to get taken advantage of. Especially in some quest to prove yourself against the Wizengamot and teach them a lesson.”

“This isn’t a way to prove myself.” Her words sounded hollow. 

“Really? This isn’t some beetle in a jar situation, only with the Wizengamot trapped instead of Skeeter?”

Hermione wanted to laugh. If anyone was trapped, it was her. 

“I know that people still have… beliefs about Muggleborns, even after the war. I get it, I do.”

Only he didn’t. 

Harry had grown up in the Muggle world, but both of his parents had been magical. Harry had a lineage he could trace while Hermione had to handle the general shock of how a Muggleborn could accomplish so much. While he may have been Muggle when he first arrived at Hogwarts, he was fully a wizard in every sense now. 

They had both experienced a Muggle upbringing, but no one had ever brought his up when discussing achievements. 

Hermione’s heart drummed in her chest. She had reached out to Nott out of her own volition to save a life. She had been so sure that she had decided to help Malfoy out of her own sense of right and wrong. 

Suddenly she was second guessing it all. 

Had some part of her wanted to prove that she could out manoeuvre the Wizengamot? They were the legal body that often pushed back on her bills and proposals. The witches and wizards who refused her meeting requests. And in this search had she allowed herself to be manipulated into saving an undeserving man?

The take-away sitting in her lap that had sounded at least appetising earlier made her want to vomit now. 

“It wasn’t like that. I’m not trying to prove myself in the wizarding world. I’d like to think my merits do that for me. I just didn’t want to see someone die.”

They stayed silent for a while. Hermione continued to rub her cuticle, harder with each pass. 

“What are the terms of the law?” Harry’s inquiry pulled her out of her despair.

“We can separate in three years, divorce in five. Any sooner, and his sentence is reinstated. Apparently even seventeenth century wizards realised a matrimony forged at an execution was tenuous and wanted a potential exit.”

“Makes sense, otherwise nobody would want to use it.” Harry tapped a finger against his desk. “Anything else?”

The admission was on the tip of Hermione’s tongue. She knew she should tell him about the Unbreakable Vow, but she couldn’t form the words. The shame that wrapped around her wrist and palm in the shape of a faded white chain wouldn’t allow her. She pulled the sleeve of her robes down slightly. 

“We have to live together for a year at least.” 

Harry let out a whistle. “How’s that working out?”

“It’s been strange.” Hermione wasn’t lying. The entire experience had been bizarre. 

“Is he still an ass?” 

She thought for a moment.

“No name calling if that’s what you’re curious about. He’s still the same in some ways. Arrogant and snarky of course but he’s also different. He hasn’t been purposefully cruel to me. He seems a little broken honestly.”

Harry nodded his head, “Azkaban can do that. I’m glad he isn't being a complete terror but be careful around him, okay? Make sure you always have your wand on you and lock the door before you go to bed. You’re in this now, I get that. I don’t agree with it but you’re an adult, Hermione. Ginny and I are always here for you.”

“What about Ron? Did you know he came over and attacked Malfoy?”

Harry suddenly looked uncomfortable, “I heard about that. I also heard Malfoy provoked him but I know how Ron is. Just… cut him some slack Hermione. I’m sure he’ll come around eventually but… well he thought, I mean we all kind of thought it would be the two of you.” 

Hermione had also thought that it would be the two of them together in the end. At least she had before. 

“Ron can be a tosser, but his heart is usually in the right place. Just give him some space, I’m sure he’ll come around and forgive you.”

She wanted to scoff. In the end, Harry thought Ron’s reaction was her fault. Her actions had culminated in the current events unfolding and she was the one that needed to ask for forgiveness. 

“Yeah, you’re probably right.” She stood, holding the grease-stained paper bag in her hands. “I should probably get back to my desk. I need to get some work done today. Thanks for the food.”

“Do you want to get lunch another time this week?”

Hermione swallowed. “I’m going to be working from home for a while.”

He bit his lip. “Right, yeah, probably not a terrible idea.”

Hermione gave a slight wave and turned to leave. 

“Hermione, why didn’t you tell me?”

She paused before turning to her best friend. “You would've tried to stop me.”

Harry didn’t respond. Just stared at her, a sadness buried deep in green orbs.

She opened the door and clicked it shut behind her. As she walked past the whispers and scornful looks, she willed the tears that burned her eyes to stay back. She tossed the bag full of cold food in a communal bin and navigated her way carefully back to her cubicle. 

Once she was sitting down, she rested her forehead against the paperwork that still laid on the wooden desk. 

When had things gotten so out of hand?

She felt like she had been moving at warp speed leading up to this moment and suddenly she had hit a wall. She allowed herself to wallow for a minute longer and then went back to work. 

She was Hermione Granger. Working hard was what she did. 

~~

When Hermione finally set her quill back down it was later than she had anticipated. She had thought briefly in the afternoon of sending Malfoy an owl to announce her late arrival but decided against it. She wasn’t some doting wife. She was his spouse as a formality and nothing else. They would live their own lives until the moment they didn’t need to be attached to one another. This was an agreement, a mission on her end, nothing else.

Hermione packed up her satchel and made her way to the Atrium. The morning crowd had dispersed but she still walked briskly to an open Floo. She felt like a small mouse, scurrying around the Ministry, hiding from the sharp teeth that waited for her. 

When she finally arrived back at the cottage, the sitting room was dark. Malfoy must have still been at Theo’s. The mention of the brown haired Slytherin made her simmer. 

Had she listened to his sob story and given in, exactly like he had planned all along? The emotion that was so clearly displayed on his face when she had agreed in his office had been so tangible. She had felt the tears, felt him shake in her arms. 

“It’s about time.” 

Hermione had her wand whipped out in a moment, a hex ready on her lips when she noticed the outline of a body sitting on the sofa.

“Salazar’s sake, don’t save me just to kill me, Granger!”

She reached for the light switch and found Malfoy with his hands up in fear, slightly leaning back into the cushions. 

“Malfoy? Why are you skulking around in the dark?” Her heart was pounding, and she pressed a hand to it as if it would slow it down. 

“I’m not skulking, I’m sitting. Just because I was a criminal, doesn’t mean everything I do is nefarious.” He had leaned forward now.

“Fine, why were you just sitting in the dark?”

He appeared mildly uncomfortable, his cheeks pinking and looked away from her. “Because it got dark outside.”

Hermione was confused but then remembered all the lights being on the past two mornings. She had assumed he had been petulant about it, used to house elves taking care of small tasks. 

“The house has electricity.” She said, the revelation hitting her. 

He continued to look away but nodded, obviously embarrassed. 

That was the moment Hermione realised how out of depth he was. How out of depth they both were. Malfoy was at her mercy in almost every way, unable to even flip a switch to turn on a light. 

She sighed, “I forgot to show you how to use the electricity. I’m sorry, it’s just a little switch here.” She demonstrated by turning the lights off once more, plunging the room in darkness again, then flipped them back on. “It’ll actually be quite handy for you. Don’t need a wand. Just plain old Muggle ingenuity.” 

He looked at the switch dubiously.

Hermione walked into the kitchen and set her bag on a chair. Now that the adrenaline from the day had worn off, she was hungry. 

“What have you eaten today?” She remembered she had left some simple food in the fridge but no way for Malfoy to heat it up. Additionally, she wasn’t even sure he knew how to prepare anything. 

“I had tea this morning. And bread.” Hermione spotted a single mug and plate in the sink. 

“Were you able to keep it down?” She wasn’t sure why she asked. It wasn’t her business. They had agreed to be cordial which she was fine with, but she kept seeing Harry’s green eyes and hearing his probing questions in her head.

“I was. It's bizarre, I haven’t felt full in ages.”

Another candidly sad confession spoken so simply. It was honestly disarming. Holding animosity towards someone who was excited at being full from a piece of toast felt like being cruel to a wounded animal. 

“Would you be able to eat soup? I know it’s warm, outside but I can heat some up.” She began to grab a pot and can from the cupboard. “It’s not home made by any means, but it might be okay for your stomach.”

He nodded and watched as she opened the can and set to heating up the contents. 

“You have a lot of Muggle items.” He was now sitting in the kitchen watching as she cooked. 

“This is the Muggle countryside. I liked the cottage so much I didn’t mind that it wasn't in a Magical village. The small town is a few miles down the road. Pretty quick bicycle ride.”

“What’s a bicycle?”

Well that answered Hermione’s previous question. 

“It’s a Muggle mode of transportation. A little like a broom, but it has two wheels and stays on the road.”

“That sounds completely different from a broom and very boring.” Hermione rolled her eyes at his upturned nose. A few moments passed. 

“So, you own one of these bicycles?” 

She stopped stirring the soup and glanced behind her shoulder at him. He was scratching the table with a now trimmed nail, staring at the wood. 

“I do own a bicycle.” She paused for a moment unsure if she wanted to confess the next part. “I own two if you’d like to learn. We could try tomorrow.” She quickly looked back at the soup, deciding that the warmth in her cheeks was due to the steam. He stayed quiet long enough she was sure he would decline, disgusted at the notion of using a Muggle contraption. 

“Fine. I have nothing better to do.” The aloof comment was offset with the slight bouncing of his knee and the continued scratching at the table. 

She let the conversation drop and served two helpings of chicken, veggies and broth into bowls before levitating them to the table. 

They didn’t talk, just the sound of her spoon contacting with the sides of her bowl filled the room. He ate silently. 

“How was Theo?” Hermione wasn’t sure where she stood with the wizard. 

“I wouldn’t know, I didn’t go see him.”

She was surprised by this.“I thought you would have gone over for most of the day.”

He shrugged, carefully ladled out a small bite and ate it without spilling a drop. When they finished eating, she began washing the dishes, savouring the warmth of the soapy water. 

“You do a lot of things the Muggle way.” He was once again sitting at the kitchen table and watching her. 

“This might be a surprise to you, but I actually grew up Muggle.” She knew she was being cheeky. 

“Ha ha, Granger, you are such a laugh.”

She grinned down at the bowl in her hands and continued washing, “Magic is amazing, but I like the ritual of doing it the Muggle way. I like putting in the work.”

“How very assiduous of you. Tell me, do you levitate to get on that high horse of yours or is that not enough effort for you?” 

Hermione set down the mug she was washing with a loud clunk. “You asked and I answered.” 

She angrily dried the cleaned dishes. When she was finished, she went and changed out of her work robes. It had gotten late, and she just wanted to drink a cup of tea and forget the day. When she entered the sitting room again, Malfoy was once more on the sofa, two steaming mugs in front of him. 

“I thought you couldn’t heat anything up.” 

He looked at her. “I figured it out after watching you heat up your tin soup. I doubt you have a House Elf hidden around here somewhere so I might as well learn.” 

She hesitantly took the mug off the coffee table. Immediately notes of bergamot wafted up her nose.

“I couldn’t bring myself to brew the pond scum.” He shrugged unapologetically.

Hermione took a sip, letting the warmth slide down her throat. She didn’t thank him. 

“I didn’t think I could face him.” Malfoy’s voice was soft. He was peering into his mug as he spoke. “I didn’t have the energy to face Theo and all that wet-eyed hope he has going on.”

Hermione took another sip. She was still unsure of her feelings for Theo but the memory of his desperation to save his friend had been real. “He was worried about you.”

Malfoy tapped a finger against the ceramic. “I know. Of course, I appreciate what he did but… I don’t know how to be what I was before. Who I was before.”

“I don’t think Theo expects you to be anyone. He just wants you to be okay. To be happy.” 

“There’s a lot of pressure in that.” 

Hermione thought about all the moments she had spent feeling like an outsider amongst her friends, about the beaded bag by her fireplace, about the concern in Harry’s voice as he questioned her reasons for helping Malfoy and she had to agree. There was a lot of pressure in trying to be okay for other people. 

They drank their tea in silence late into the evening and for a short period, Hermione did not worry about the time. 

~~

The next morning Hermione made breakfast for her and Malfoy. She felt slightly guilty for essentially stranding him alone in her home full of Muggle appliances without a wand. He once again observed while she made tea and toast. The domesticity of it all was off-putting. It wasn’t as terrible as she needed it to be. 

“Malfoy, you do realise that many Wizarding homes have Muggle appliances that just run off magic instead. How can you barely understand a toaster?”

He shrugged as he delicately took a buttered bite. “We had a House Elf who made all of our food and did the cleaning of course.”

“What about during your house arrest?”

He dabbed his mouth with his napkin though shockingly few crumbs had fallen. “The Manor still retains two House Elves. They served me while I resided there and now, they serve my mother.”

“I was under the impression that House Elves that had been enslaved by convicted Death Eaters were removed.”

Malfoy slowly chewed, “They were able to choose to be employed by their previous Masters for a Ministry approved salary.”

It surprised Hermione that any of them had chosen to stay and that Malfoy had paid them.

“Why aren’t you heading to the Ministry today, Granger?” Oh. Malfoy had noticed she hadn’t rushed out this morning. 

“I’m going to be working from home for the foreseeable future.” She hoped he would drop the matter but instead he raised an eyebrow quizzically. “Apparently our union is considered news-worthy.”

His face became sombre. “It was so terrible that you can’t go back to the Ministry anymore?”

She finished her toast, debating what to say. “There are a lot of stories circulating. Most people are assuming that we’ve had some sort of affair since Hogwarts. There was a crowd of journalists waiting when I got out of the Floo. I thought the attention would be primarily focused on your release, but they seemed mostly interested in our marriage.”

“The Golden Girl and Death Eater scum.” His hands were clenched into fists on top of the table. Hermione recognized the words from their first encounter at the Ministry.

“Apparently our story is amazing tabloid material. My manager decided it would be best if I Owled my work in so I wouldn’t risk another surprise encounter. Maybe it’s a good thing, I wouldn’t want you to set my house on fire in my absence.” She hoped the snide remark would earn a rude retort back, but he just continued to stare down at his empty plate.

“I do however have a free afternoon now if you would like to get out for a bit. We could visit the town, practice riding a bicycle.” She had no idea what she was trying to accomplish. Harry had put her in a tailspin about her motives for helping Malfoy, but looking at him now, shorn head and heavy shoulders, she couldn’t help but want to save him all over again. 

“Unless you’re scared of course. I’d completely understand, what with bicycles being a big bad Muggle invention.” This caught his attention, and he looked up quickly, glaring at her.

“I mastered a spiral dive on my broom before I was thirteen. I can handle something that doesn’t even leave the ground.” 

~~ 

Malfoy had crashed twice before they had even started their journey. He had looked perplexed by the bike when Hermione had first rolled it out. He acted like it might jump forward and bite him. The first time he had sat on it he tried to put both feet on the pedals and immediately fell over, the bicycle landing on top of him.

Once he was finally able to balance on his own while moving (learning faster than Hermione had expected) he had taken off too quickly and landed in a bush at the end of her drive. Each time he picked himself up and glared at the offending piece of metal but didn’t give up. While he was a little worse for wear, he finally got the hang of it and was biking with relative ease, only wobbling every so often. 

Hermione hadn’t seen him look so content the entire time she had been helping him. 

The cropped strands of his blonde hair glistened under the sun and his head was slightly tilted back as he savoured the sunlight. His face was the least guarded she had seen in ages. That’s when it hit her. He looked like he had when he flew in school. The relaxed expression, the sunlit hair, the sense of confidence that didn’t come from a name or fortune, it was exactly like how he looked up in the air above the quidditch pitch.

He was wearing another pair of tracksuit pants and a white cotton long sleeve shirt. Hermione had suggested a t-shirt for the warm weather, but he quickly touched his left forearm, a reaction so familiar to her, and she simply cast a cooling charm on him instead. She had gotten a glimpse of the mark while healing his wounds but hadn’t let her eyes linger. She didn’t want to think about what was branded on that arm. The snake hidden behind the cotton. 

As they pedalled down the long country road Hermione let herself pretend as she often did while riding her bicycle. In her white shorts and cornflower blue linen top she could feel the rays of light soaking into her skin and she let herself imagine that she was simply a woman enjoying a ride during the English summer. 

Ahead of her Malfoy had gained the courage to pedal faster, a gleeful laugh echoing behind him. Hermione pumped her legs to keep speed, savouring the slight burn in her lungs. They made it to the village slightly damp and out of breath. Malfoy had grasped the breaks on the handles too forcefully and fell for a third time. 

His face was flushed, and his eyes were bright. “I’ll admit it, that was more fun than I had expected. It’s not riding a broom, but it does get a good bit of speed.”

Hermione was gracious enough to not gloat as they parked their bikes at a designated rack. Once they were secured, they began wandering the small shops. 

“It isn’t very big, but it has almost everything you could need. There are a few shops for clothes, some restaurants, a few pubs, even a sweets shop that sells ice cream.” 

“Merlin’s Beard, what I’d do for some ice cream. I’d probably vomit if I ate it but I don’t even care.” Hermione agreed he probably would vomit but they found themselves sitting on a bench outside of the shop holding ice cream cones anyways.

“This is almost as good as Fortescue’s.” 

Hermione nodded in agreement with Malfoy’s praise. 

“What ever happened to the shop? I mean since Fortescue…” he trailed off but Hermione understood. 

“A family member took over the business, a nephew I believe. It reopened about a year after the war. The ice cream is still delicious.” Hermione felt a drop of the cold treat land on her knuckle. She quickly wiped it away with her serviette. “Maybe we can go sometime.”

“I don’t think I’d be very welcomed at Fortescue’s. Honestly, I’m not sure I’d be very welcomed in Diagon Alley at all.” He was now taking bites from the sweet waffle cone, watching as people walked along the cobbled streets. “Guess I should get used to the Muggle world. The Wizarding world doesn’t want me. It’s a shocking turn of events isn’t it. Someone like me sitting on a Muggle bench, eating Muggle ice cream.”

“And doing it all with a Muggleborn.” 

He gave a hum of agreement as he wiped his hands clean. 

Hermione hesitated for a moment, “You’ll be able to go back, Malfoy. You can choose to go back.” 

He gave her a dry laugh. “What makes you so convinced? Is it my shining family name and legacy? My brave history as the boy who let Death Eaters into Hogwarts leading to one of the greatest wizard’s death or my heroism during the war?” 

She didn’t know how to respond to him. “No, I don’t think so, Granger. Those journalists didn’t mob you to get the story about my redemption. They wanted to claim the tale of your downfall. Everyone has accepted my place in the world. Me included.” 

He never looked at her as he spoke but continued to face the street. The sun illuminated his features, causing him to squint slightly. Despite the rays of sun, Hermione had goosebumps across her arms. 

They rode back to the cottage in silence. Malfoy stopped abruptly once, throwing his bicycle aside and running into the bushes. He heaved and Hermione heard wet sputters as the ice cream made its forceful reappearance. A peculiar urge to comfort him as he hung his head while on his hands and knees passed through her. She didn’t let herself move. When he was done wiping his mouth with his sleeve, he got back on the bicycle and began pedalling without acknowledging what had just occurred.

As they arrived back to the confines of the small cottage, Hermione opened the Floo, and it began to flash green. Theo’s head appeared. 

“Finally! I’ve been trying to reach you, but your Floo was shut. Can I Floo over?” His voice sounded tense. Hermione agreed and soon Theo was stepping out of the fireplace. 

He looked nervous. His demeanour reminded her of when he had first brought up the Gallows Marriage. Hermione immediately felt on edge. The conversation with Harry rang through her head and she eyed him hesitantly.

“Where’s Draco?” He looked around the small sitting room. Malfoy appeared in the hallway. He had stepped into the loo, Hermione guessed to rinse his mouth out. 

“You look terrible. What are you wearing?”

Malfoy looked offended. “Thanks, Theo. It’s lovely to see you too.”

“I’ll make sure to send Tippi over with the wardrobe I have for you. I thought you’d come over yesterday and I had planned to send you home with them.” Malfoy looked uncomfortable. 

Hermione stepped towards Theo. “What did you need to desperately tell us?”

He looked grave once more. “I assume you haven’t opened the letter from the Ministry.” 

Hermione looked at the kitchen counter. She had trained Bathilda to leave letters on the counter by keeping the latch on the window open, allowing the owl to push the glass. Sitting on the counter was a letter from the Ministry addressed to Mr. And Mrs. Malfoy in clean script.

She began to open the wax, dread filling her gut. 

Salutations, 

Your presence has been formally requested in two days' time at ten in the morning at the office of the Wizengamot located at the Ministry of Magic. Failure to arrive shall be considered in contempt of court and result in swift disciplinary action. 

Best Regards,

The Office of Augustus Codsworth

Hermione’s hand shook slightly as she passed the letter to Malfoy. She saw the fear widen his eyes and part his lips as his eyes travelled down the page.

“What do they want?” He murmured, his eyes following the words over and over again. 

“Honestly, I have no idea. I received a letter saying that you two would need to go to the Ministry and that my presence would not be required.” He stood with his arms crossed. 

“Why did they send you a letter if they didn’t want you to go?” Hermione found the entire situation strange. 

“It kind of felt like a massive fuck you. Like they wanted me to be aware they could call you at will and that I couldn’t stop it.” He glared at the offending paper that Malfoy still held, hands shaking slightly. 

Hermione’s stomach began to twist and turn. The look on Codsworth's face before she had walked out of the office at Azkaban haunted her. 

“They are trying to send me back to Azkaban, aren’t they? They aren’t going to stop trying.” Malfoy’s voice was flat, and his eyes were blinking rapidly. 

“We aren’t letting them send you back, Draco. You’re not going back.” Theo attempted to rest a hand on Malfoy’s shoulder but he took a swift step back. 

“That’s not something you can promise, Theo. The law you pulled out of your ass is ancient. It's a miracle it worked at all. All you’ve done is extend my sentencing.”

Theo’s face looked stricken, “No! I researched it extensively! It’s solid!” 

Malfoy wasn’t listening, just slowly backing away, “If I knew that they would drag me back in whenever they wanted, I would have just accepted the Kiss then. Better that than living with a sword hanging above my head,” as he spoke, all emotion disappeared from his features. 

Hermione had seen him Occlude before but for the first time, she witnessed it without the magic suppression potion in his system. It was like he turned to stone. No inkling of an expression shone through. He turned and walked towards his room without a single glance back. 

Theo continued to stare after him, one hand still reaching for his friend. 

“What are we going to do?” Hermione wrapped her arms around herself. 

“Go. That’s all you can do.” Theo continued to focus on the closed door. He finally sighed and turned to her. “I don’t know what they have up their sleeves but it’s not going to be good. I’m… I’m so sorry. About all of this. I know it probably hasn’t been easy and it’s probably not going to get any easier. I’ll help any way I can. I swear.” 

His dark green eyes were so earnest that Hermione couldn’t stop herself from nodding. Harry couldn’t have been right about Theo. Harry hadn’t witnessed the man crumble over Malfoy, hadn’t witnessed the way he exposed his emotions willingly.

Theo left, promising he would still meet them at the Ministry in two days, “presence not required” be damned.

It was early evening, the sunlight still present but softer. Hermione made some pasta and left a bowl on the counter for Malfoy, though she wasn’t sure he would leave his room that night. 

As she laid in bed, she could hear the click of a door opening and the echoing of footsteps passing her room. Exhaustion from the sun and heavy news pulled her into a dreamless sleep. 

For a moment, she thought she heard the front gate opening. Had she heard it a moment sooner, she would have gone to investigate but sleep was too near. Before she could wonder about the noise any further, she slipped into darkness. 

Notes:

Happy Birthday, Draco!!! 🎂

Yay chapter 9! It’s zooming by, ya’ll.

As always, the support has been astounding! Thank you for all the comments and interest, it boggles my mind.

All the love to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for making it all readable 🙏

This was written with my phone an inch from my face at like 2am. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 10

Notes:

Surprise drop! Happy Friday!
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
The Tawny Owl in Taw Hill, 11 PM

 

Jonathon Davies was having a bad night. 

His Cavalier had broken down earlier that week. It had been stalling while he drove for weeks, but he had ignored it until he couldn’t anymore, which left him either cycling or walking to get around. His hours at Tesco had been cut yet again, which would have been alright if it weren’t for his eighteen year old manager Andrew pulling him into the back to discuss him being late again. At twenty-four, Jonathon despised having to pussyfoot around a child to keep his job.

If that wasn’t bad enough, Lizzy had been talking about marriage again. The idea made Jonathon feel like he had a pair of hands around his neck, squeezing. It wasn’t that he didn’t want to marry her. They had been together for nearly two years, and she had always been a loyal girl. He just didn’t want to end up stuck in their small shitehole town for the rest of his days. If he was still working at a supermarket under Andrew in three years, he was going to jump off the church bell tower. 

That’s how he found himself two pints in at the Tawny Owl. The old pub attracted geezers and barflies, but the drinks were cheap and there was always a seat at the bar. Jonathon knew Lizzy was waiting for him at home. She had told him that morning that she wanted to ‘chat about their future.’ So, he sat at The Tawny Owl, trying to delay the inevitable fight. 

“Hey, Johnny,” he looked up and saw Mary-Anne Gifford standing next to his stool. Blonde hair and a full smile, she looked beautiful. Her low-rise denim skirt allowed for a peek at the tanned skin of her stomach, a tiny diamond glinting at her navel. 

“Mary-Anne.” He gave her a nod and took a foamy sip of beer from the now tepid glass in his hand.  

“You drinking alone tonight?” She leaned ever so slightly closer. Jonathon had met Mary-Anne a couple months prior during another evening much like tonight at the Tawny Owl. They had spent a few nights together since. She was a nice girl, pretty and warm and clueless about his relationship. Jonathon liked that she barely reached his shoulders and how she fawned over his physique. 

“You’re like a big bear, you make me feel safe,” she had whispered to him in the back of his Cavalier the first night they had left the bar together. If Mary-Anne wanted more than a few minutes in the back of his car or at her small flat, she never asked, and Jonathon never offered. He sometimes worried that Lizzy would get wind of what was going on, but the thought never seemed to linger long after a few drinks and a couple of soft touches.

She sat on the stool next to him, her feet dangling above the sticky wooden floors of the pub. They did their typical song and dance, drinking and flirting, until they both were too drunk to think about the consequences of their actions. 

They left the pub, Mary-Anne’s slim frame under his heavy arm. As they walked, she started rubbing his chest with her small hands, her long nails scraping against the material of his work shirt. 

“Where’s your car?” She whispered, pulling him down so she could kiss the side of his neck. 

“Ah fuck, it’s in the shop. I walked,” he mumbled into her hair that smelled of perfume and hairspray. It was the same kind Lizzy used. 

“That’s ok, we can use my flat. It's not too far.” She tugged his hand as if they hadn't gone through these motions before. They continued through the dark streets, stopping to pull each other in for messy kisses and hard caresses. 

“Ouch, what the fuck.” Jonathon found himself falling backward. He landed hard on his side and when he looked at what he had tripped over he saw a bike with a straw basket.

“That’s my bicycle.” 

Jonathon swivelled his head towards the slightly slurred voice. Sitting on the bench outside of a sweet shop in the dark was a person. At first glance Jonathon thought the stranger was a teenager. His outline was thin; it looked like a stiff wind could have blown him over. The streetlamp above him reflected off the shaved hair on his head. 

“Yeah, well your bike was in the middle of the pavement.” Jonathon stood up and dusted himself off. His day had just started to look up and this stupid git had left his bike on the ground for him to trip on. Mary-Anne was looking at the odd man-child, slightly hiding behind Jonathon. The memory of her complimenting his formidable size and the general shittiness of the day had him on edge. 

“If you had been watching where you walked instead of studying the inside of her mouth, you probably wouldn’t have tripped. Didn’t exactly hide it. It’s a big shiny bicycle.” The stranger let out a loud guffaw at his own words.

“Wait a minute, I saw you at the pub earlier.” Jonathon had remembered thinking the man (because in the brighter lighting of the pub, he had definitely been a man) was strange. He had walked in without any money looking lost, like he had never been in a pub before. Rich, a regular, had taken mercy on the bloke and bought him some pints. The legless bastard had left while Mary-Anne and Jonathon had been beating around the bush with each other. 

“Oh, right. I thought you two looked familiar. I remember wondering why a beautiful woman like her was wasting time with an ugly git like you.” The man’s pointy face broke out into a large smirk. 

Jonathon felt his cheeks burn. He had always been self-conscious of his looks. It was why he spent so much time in the gym. While the arsehole of a man was willowy, his features were refined. If it weren’t for the stained trackies Jonathon would have clocked him as posh. He had even noticed Mary-Anne take a quick second glance when he had been hailing the bartender for another round. 

The man’s pale skin was flushed pink, and he rubbed his eyes as he chuckled. He had his elbows resting on the back of the bench and his head was leaned back. 

“Don’t be offended. It’s just a simple fact that you're fighting out of your weight-class. It’s admirable, really. Love can be so capricious as is without adding to it.” Jonathon felt Mary-Anne tug his hand, but he shook it off. 

“That’s some big fucking talk, you fuck.” Jonathon pointed a finger at the blonde man. 

The only reaction he gave in return was to slowly stand, laughing all the while. “I’m sorry, do you not know what capricious means? I was under the impression that Muggles had similar standards for education.” The man was now looking at Jonathon with pity.  

“Now, you feckless arsehole, I don’t know what the fuck Muggle means, but I’m not one. I’m Protestant.” Jonathon wasn’t sure what he had said that was so funny, but the blonde man doubled over, grabbing his knees as he howled. 

Jonathon had had enough. All the frustration of the day bubbled over as he grabbed the man’s white long sleeve shirt. He heard Mary-Anne yell behind him, but he didn’t care, he wound his arm back and punched that sharp jaw. He could feel the snap of teeth and suddenly he was holding the man up by his shirt. 

“Not such a smart fucking mouth now, eh?” Jonathon hissed. The man clawed at the hands holding his shirt and managed to stand. Jonathon hadn’t realised just how tall the stranger was until they were almost eye to eye. Jonathon froze for a moment. The freak was… smiling. He looked like being hit was the funniest fucking thing that could have happened to him, but the humour didn’t reach his eyes. The grey eyes were two stones, completely dead. It was an eerie composition. 

While Jonathon was distracted the man snuck in a hit of his own. The sucker punch to the gut should have knocked the wind out of Jonathon but it held so little force. He landed another blow against the blonde man’s temple, disorienting him. He toppled over, his weight hitting the cobbled pavement hard. He groaned softly. Jonathon waited to see what the smart bastard would say. He almost felt bad for the brittle idiot. Almost.

“Pretty sure… I’d have… to be dead… to be dumber than you.” Each word was breathless, but Jonathon didn’t care. He kicked the man in the stomach who yelped and curled into himself on his side. He stayed on the ground, coughing and wheezing. 

“Fuck you.” Jonathon spat before turning and kicking the bicycle. Mary-Anne was gone, having run off during the fight. 

The day couldn’t have been any fucking worse. He kicked a stone, thinking about dead eyes and walked down the street. Right as he was about to turn the corner, he felt a hand grab him forcefully, jerking him backwards. “What the fuck!” 

Then everything went black for Jonathon Davies. 

Notes:

Chapter 10! WOOO!

Thank you for all the comments and love, it’s been so amazing! If you’ve wandered over from TikTok or Reddit, thank you so much for checking out the fic! This was a surprise Friday drop and the next update will be the regular Sunday release. I’m sure some of you have questions but a little mystery is fun!

Shoutout to my brilliant betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, ya’ll save me from all the spelling errors and from releasing all the chapters at once.

This was written on my iPhone while I sat on the couch and listened to too much M83 (if that’s even possible) so proceed with causation.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 11

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione woke up with the immediate feeling that she had forgotten something. Was it a dream? Had she not fed Crookshanks?

She got out of bed and went to brush her teeth, pondering what was nagging at her. When she was done, she noticed that the second toothbrush by the sink was damp. Malfoy must have already been awake. Before she left the toilet a shiny object caught her attention.

She looked down and saw the tin of salve she had given Malfoy for his bruises.

Hermione found that strange.

His bruises had looked almost entirely faded the day before, even from his brawl with Ron. Magical healing was quick, and Hermione was quite good at it. She threw her robe on and walked to the kitchen, wondering if she had missed a blow.

“Good morning, Granger.” She jumped.

“Malfoy!” He was sitting at the table, holding a cup of tea. There was a plate of burned toast in front of him, still slightly smoking. She would have been surprised at the act of him making breakfast no matter what, but it was his bruised and swollen face that caused her to pause. Parts of it looked like it was starting to heal very minimally.

“I attempted to make toast. Did you curse the toaster so it chars everything I touch? That explanation feels more accurate than me just being bad at it.” As he spoke the swelling of his jaw made his mouth move unevenly.

“What happened to your face?” She took a few steps forward and reached out towards him but he quickly drew back. She snapped her hand to her side and sat down, stuffing the offending limbs under her legs. “Malfoy, what happened?”

“I fell off the bicycle.”

“I know you fell off the bicycle, I was, in fact, there. I, however, did not see you fall off hard enough to warrant your current state.”

He sighed and reached for a piece of toast. As he grabbed it Hermione noticed his knuckles were discoloured. “I went for another bicycle ride last night.”

Realisation struck Hermione hard. The footsteps, the strange sound, it all came back to her in a flash. Her heart began to pump in her chest and she felt that familiar sensation of adrenaline.

How had she missed it? She was normally so attentive, a vestige from the war. She prided herself on being aware of her surroundings. On never getting caught again. “You left last night?”

Malfoy looked at her, “Am I not allowed to? Am I a prisoner here?”

They hadn’t laid out any ground rules and even if they had, Hermione wasn’t sure he would allow himself to be confined once more after his years on house-arrest and then Azkaban.

“Of course you aren’t a prisoner but I’m not sure you should be going out alone. Where did you even go?” She was trying to calm her racing nerves by pouring a cup of tea. She eyed the burnt toast and reached for a slice that looked the least afflicted.

“Just for a ride. I needed to clear my head after… I just needed to clear my head. Get some air.”

“It’s pitch black out there at night, Malfoy. That’s so dangerous.”

He nodded his head in agreement. “Yes, quite. Turns out living in a dark prison cell doesn’t prepare one to navigate Muggle country roads by moonlight. Hence my current state.” He motioned to his tender face.

Hermione eyed his bruised hand once more. Something felt… off. She couldn’t put her finger on what exactly.

“What, Granger?”

She continued to appraise his injuries. “Must have been quite some bicycle accident.”

“It was. I hit a rock and swerved into a ditch and went flying over the handles of the blasted thing. Landed on my face. The handlebar caught me in the ribs too, knocked the air right out of me. Your bicycle might be a little worse for wear. I… may have taken out some aggression on it. We can add it to the running tab.”

He shook his swollen hand out. “Turns out I’m shit at throwing a punch. Never thought I’d have to fight with my fists. Why do it when a wand is available?” He looked back at Hermione.

She sighed.

“Let me see your hand.” He held it out to her, palm facing up. The fingers were purple, the knuckle of his thumb an angry red.

“You punched the bicycle with your thumb in your fist, didn’t you?”

He pursed his lips. “I might have.”

She scowled. “Well, in addition to you hurting yourself on your stupid joyride you also broke your thumb by being a bad shot. Thumb out next time you want to deface my property.” She healed his face and hand. “Now what else hurts?” He sheepishly raised his shirt, revealing a blooming bruise.

“That was from hitting the handle?” she asked sceptically.

“I… may have been going rather fast. The bicycle got jammed in the ditch and stopped abruptly. I hit it hard going over.”

She healed his ribs, dabbing the Murtlap Essence with a firmer than necessary hand.

“Wouldn't the Essence of Dittany heal the bruising almost immediately?”

“Yes but it’s also a fair bit more expensive. I think you can handle the discomfort. After all it was your idiotic actions that earned them.”

She gave a final hard swipe of the Murtlap covered flannel causing him to flinch. “There. You’re healed. A tiring endeavour if I’m being honest.” She threw the cloth on the table and took her tea back to the sitting room. She didn’t feel like seeing his stupid healed face.

She stewed in her anger, burning her tongue on the hot liquid. Malfoy shuffled in slowly. He stood hesitantly by the sofa she was sitting on but thought better of it and chose the armchair. Hermione refused to look at him.

She was so angry. Angry with herself for not being alert, for not thinking of how easily Malfoy could just walk out of the damn house. She was being reckless.

She was angry with Malfoy for being so blasé about his safety. She had fought for his life, had given up so much for it and he was being careless.

She was angry at Harry for being right about her foolhardiness in this entire plan. She wasn’t prepared for any of it.

Hermione hated being wrong.

“Look, Granger, I’m sorry about the bicycle, alright?”

She scoffed, “I don’t care about the bike. I care about you being a witless git. First with Ron, now with your midnight outing. I’m responsible for you. I’m responsible for your actions. I sacrificed for your life and you’re throwing it away.”

He tightened his grip on the armrest. “I understand that you gave a lot for me to get out of Azkaban but please remember, I didn’t ask you for it. I’m thankful but just because you decided to take on a crusade on my behalf does not mean I’m going to live in some bubble to ease your conscience.”

Hermione continued to glare at her feet that were resting on the coffee table.

“I am sorry you have to keep healing me. If I get hurt again, I’ll do my best to not require your battle-won skills.”

Hermione stayed silent, refusing to dim her vexation. It was a fire burning in her chest. She knew what he was saying wasn’t unreasonable. She hadn’t saved him to control his life or actions, she just wanted him to have a healthy respect for his mortality.

And it pissed her off.

“I just needed out.” He continued to talk to her silence. “We got that letter and we both know what it means. They are going to take me back. Back to that windowless cell. I was in my room and suddenly the walls felt like they were pressing in on me. I tried walking around the kitchen but even that felt too enclosed. I couldn’t breathe. I only meant to go out to the garden, to feel the ground, see the sky and convince myself I wasn’t back in that damp nightmare. I felt so… angry and terrified. And all I wanted to do was ride my broom and then I saw the bicycle and grabbed it and just started pedalling. Turns out being closer to the moon makes flying at night a fair bit easier. I couldn’t see but I just… went. And then… well you know the rest.” He was tracing the stitches of the leather chair.

He looked pathetic.

Hermione had always considered him as such during their youth. In the way he had demeaned others to build himself up, the way he threw around his name and money, the way he bullied her when she bested him in school. However, this was the first time he looked properly pitiful. Head hanging, knees bouncing, too afraid to look in her eyes.

This new stripped-down version of Malfoy that admitted sentiments rendered her defenceless. He laid bare his hurt and his fears at her feet and hadn’t asked for a thing in return other than her understanding. He hadn’t asked her to save his life. Hell, he hadn’t even ever asked her to heal him. She had taken it upon herself every time.

Hermione felt a rush of guilt.

She had been so suspicious and angry when she had seen his battered face. Now she just felt… bad.

She sighed, “Fine. Just tell me when you leave, okay? I’m trying to be moderately trusting of you but don’t waste it please.”

He gave a smirk. “Does that mean you forgive me? I must to admit I was a little worried there when you gave me boxing advice.”

She pointed an exasperated stare in his direction, but his mischievous smile faded slightly.

“Now that that unpleasantness is done, unfortunately I have to introduce some new nasty business.”

He held out a letter. Hermione was starting to really resent the form of communication.

“It’s from my mother.”

Somehow, she had not seen this coming even slightly.

“What does she want?” Her voice was low.

“It would seem her only heir and son narrowly escaping the Kiss and getting married in the same week is letter worthy. She sent this invitation yesterday morning while you were getting ready to go to town.” It was thick paper with beautiful handwriting on the front. “She wanted to celebrate my nuptials.”

Hermione did not miss that only his name was written on the envelope.

“Why are you telling me? It's addressed to you.” She tried not to let her voice sound too bitter. She couldn’t care less about a Pureblood hermit.

“I didn’t respond. We went to learn how to ride the bicycle and then Theo bombarded us.” He held up a new letter, this one addressed to Mr. And Mrs. Malfoy. “Apparently my mother took it as me reacting to the solo invitation as a slight. She has now requested both of our presence for dinner.”

Hermione felt her stomach drop. Narcissa Malfoy now resided at the Manor. Any dinner would be held in that cursed estate. She rubbed her forearm through her robe. Malfoy’s eyes followed the movement.

“You don’t have to go. I never imagined you would. I can tell her you don’t feel well. I could also just tell her the truth, that we married for the simple reason of keeping my soul firmly inside of my body and the marriage is a farce. I had planned on it anyway. You don’t have to… force yourself. I’m not sure your attending would even be a good idea. Mother is… set in her traditions.”

Hermione felt the sting of rejection. Of course he hadn’t wanted her to go. Perhaps he didn’t believe all Muggleborns deserved to be slaughtered anymore but that didn’t mean he wanted to present his Muggleborn wife to his ‘traditional’ mother. God, Hermione hated that word. It was so often used to replace bigoted. Laws were turned down for being too ‘progressive,’ Hermione excelled despite her lack of ‘traditional upbringing,’ it was all such rubbish.

How dare Malfoy and his bigoted mother try to keep her from her own celebratory dinner? It didn’t matter that she didn’t much like the company, that the Manor still gave her nightmares and the marriage itself still raised the hairs on her body, Hermione would be damned before she let Narcissa Malfoy make her feel less then.

“I’ll go.”

Malfoy gaped at her, “I don’t think–”

“When?”

He looked hesitant, “Tonight. 6:30.”

Oh damn. She hadn’t expected it to be so soon.

“Perfect, I’ll be ready.” She took her tea to her room. If she was going to panic she was going to do it behind a closed door.

~~

At 6:20 Hermione stepped out of her bedroom. She flattened her periwinkle summer robes once more. Hermione had debated wearing denim cutoffs and a ratty shirt to shock the delicate sensibilities of her hostess but quickly brushed the idea off. She had learned the value of dressing for the occasion. Donning a suit of armour before battle could make all the difference. Her hair was wrapped elegantly in a chignon at the base of her head and her beauty charms had been applied with perfection. She was no longer a girl with knobby knees being slighted at Madam Malkin’s or a victim. She was Hermione Granger, a woman who had earned her place at this dinner table.

Malfoy was waiting by the Floo. Tippi had dropped off the wardrobe Theo had promised, supplying more options besides tracksuit pants and cotton shirts. Comfort was replaced with a sharp fitting suit. The material did well to fill in his frame, making him appear more solid. The collar grazed the bottom of the tattoo on his neck. The contrast of fine material against a cruel engraving was almost startling. The facial bruising had faded even more during the day and now only a faint shadow of yellow remained, visible only if you were looking for it. He held himself straight, his hands clasped behind his back.

He looked more like the Malfoy that she had expected than ever before. Gone was the man crying while petting a cat or laughing as he rode a bike or describing a panic attack while picking at her armchair.

“Are you ready to go?”

No, not really. She wasn’t sure she would ever be ready to deal with a part of her past she had been fully resigned to ignoring.

She nodded her head.

They entered the Floo and off they went.

~~

As Hermione walked out of the massive fireplace, she couldn’t help but feel like she had stepped back in time. Having used a Time-Turner in third year she was well aware of participating in an event twice, only now the experience didn’t feel magical. The checked floors looked the same as she remembered. She briefly wondered if they would feel the same under her back. Hermione quickly shook her head, reminding herself she was a guest this time. Not a prisoner.

Her heart and stomach did not agree.

Having only been in Malfoy Manor at night, Hermione did not expect it to be so bright. The room they entered was larger than the one she had been in before. The walls were lined with large glass windows. It almost made her feel like she was outside. Hermione thought back to the moment Malfoy had pressed his hands to her small window, the awe he had had as he gazed at the sky. He had been raised in sunlight and then had been thrown into darkness.

“Mistress is waiting in the dining room.” A small and elderly looking house-elf bowed its tiny head. It wore a small dress with scalloped edges.

“Thank you, Pimsey.”

The house-elf looked up at Malfoy, large eyes filled it with tears.

“Oh, Master Draco. I is so happy to seeing you okay.” The tiny creature patted his knee and then disappeared in the puff.

Hermione was speechless. She had seen the way Dobby cowered in fear at the mention of Lucius, had seen the burns and bandages. Maybe she hadn’t expected Malfoy to kick the house elf immediately upon arrival but that felt more in line with reality than what she had just witnessed.

He didn’t seem to notice her gawking and began to walk down the length of the room. He paused briefly to peer at her, “This way.” And then he was off again.

Her shoes clacked through the Manor, which was more ornate than even Theo’s had been. Gold gilded accents shone on the white stone of the hall. Above them elaborate frescoes depicted the constellations and the cosmos. Hermione remembered their conversation about his Gringotts vaults (plural) in her kitchen and realised how silly she had been to ask about the state of his account. This was the kind of wealth you couldn’t ever fully spend. It was hidden in the floors, the ceilings and the walls. This was wealth down to the very foundation.

Oh god, what had she gotten herself into?

Malfoy led them into a large dining room. More windows allowed the fading sun to peek in and a large fire blazed towards the head of the table. Even in the summer the house was comfortable, a testament to the perfection of the cooling charms old estates tended to have. Beautiful vases filled with peonies and larkspur sat on painted tables against the walls. The long dining table was set with exquisite china and crystal glasses and silver candlesticks with white tapered candles towered down the centre.

“Draco.” The word was released on the tail of a gasp.

Narcissa Malfoy was beautiful.

Hermione had accepted it as a child when she had first laid eyes on the tall and regal woman. She had even remembered wondering if such a beautiful woman would watch her die. With long cornsilk blonde hair and sharp features Hermione realised Malfoy took after his mother. He had inherited Lucius’ eyes and sneer but few of his father’s other features. Narcissa stood tall, silk robes of off-white draped around her poised stance.

Hermione thanked the heavens she hadn’t worn the cutoffs.

“Mother.”

Malfoy stood hesitantly next to Hermione, as if he was unsure of how to handle seeing his own parent. A peculiar situation that Hermione had contemplated many times herself in the last five years.

They didn’t run to each other or embrace. They just stared, taking in the small details of the other.

The woman blinked out of her momentary shock and swiftly fell into the role of lady of the house.

“And Ms. Granger, welcome. I hope you don’t mind me not referring to you as Mrs. Malfoy. It’s ever so dreadful to be reminded of one’s age.” The way she said it was pleasant enough but the brief look of disdain was not.

“Of course. I’d just prefer Hermione.” Narcissa smiled cordially and motioned for them to sit down. Once they sat another house elf in a tiny linen shirt appeared, serving a chilled leek soup. Hermione thanked the visits to Aunt Agatha, who thought of herself as being highborn due to her husband having a distant relation to the monarchy, that had taught her which of the many cutleries to use.

“Imagine my surprise when I saw the front of The Daily Prophet informing me that you did not receive the Kiss and were instead married.” Her lip curled ever so slightly at the mention of the marriage.

“I regret that you found out that way, Mother. The Ministry was very determined to keep matters hidden.” He spoke like he was reading from a script.

“Well, if you had allowed me to attend the Kiss maybe I wouldn’t have needed to be informed.” Hermione was amazed at how pleasant she sounded while chastising her son. Much like her Draco, she ate silently and neatly.

“I apologise Mother. You know how the Ministry can be. I wasn’t aware you wouldn’t be allowed to attend.” The lie slipped from his lips so easily. There was no tell in his features or mannerisms whatsoever.

If Hermione hadn’t been told a different story, she would have believed the falsehood readily. She remembered the way he often fidgeted when he became nervous. There was none of that now. He sat up straight in the chair, shoulders back, and carefully brought cold soup to his mouth. Little was said until the salad was brought out.

“Hermione, I would like to formally express my gratitude to you for saving my son. I apologise that it has taken me so long to voice it. I was slightly shaken when you first arrived.”

Hermione dropped a piece of lettuce as her fork halted. The woman hadn’t appeared taken aback to her, but she ignored the thought. “Oh. Well, you’re welcome.”

“I must admit the nature of the law was rather… unexpected.”

Hermione didn’t know what else to say. Sorry to sully your pristine bloodline?

“I had no idea you two were so… involved.” Narcissa sniffed the word like it smelled unpleasant. “I was surprised when I found out that young Hermione Granger had professed her love before the entire Wizengamot.”

Hermione’s face flushed. “Artistic liberties from the Prophet, I can assure you.”

Narcissa ignored her comment. “I thought I was more aware of my son’s… affairs. Has it gone on for some time?”

Hermione had had about enough of that. “I’m sorry, Mrs. Malfoy, but you have been misinformed. We aren’t in any sort of relationship other than a legal agreement for the sole purpose of saving Mal– Draco’s life. I only proposed to save him from the Kiss. There have been no affairs.”

She quickly glanced at Malfoy who continued to eat his salad. He seemed determined to ignore anything that wasn’t the food on his plate. Hermione hoped he threw it up.

“Oh, well I see.” Hermione noticed the way the woman seemed to brighten. “That really has been left out of the papers. It was presented as a young love that survived against all odds in the war and then led to Draco’s freedom. Quite moving really.”

“No, that wasn’t it, at all. I was informed of the law when I was looking for a way to stop the Kiss from happening. It was the only option that I could find. I knew what the aim of the Wizengamot was and didn’t agree with their closed deliberation.”

“It’s so wonderful that you are familiar with our laws. It must be helpful at that little job of yours. You do have a history of defending those without a voice. From personal experience, I am sure.”

Hermione smiled thinly at the passing slight. Malfoy had frozen for a moment but resumed eating silently. She didn’t expect him to defend her to his mother, but she hadn’t expected his silence would bite either.

“I don’t like seeing people taken advantage of or abused.” How badly Hermione wanted to add ‘a shockingly rare sentiment to people in your social group apparently,’ but she refrained. Just.

Once the salads were finished Pimsey and the male house elf, Hermione had come to learn was named Fig, carefully removed their plates before presenting the main course of lamb with fondant potatoes and rosemary.

“How long must you stay married?” Narcissa was daintily cutting her lamb into tiny bites and then using the back of her fork to carry it to her mouth

“Five years.”

“Oh well, that’s not so bad! It isn’t ideal but you’ll still be young, Draco. You could easily remarry. The wizarding world's memory is short. It does limit the options; many young women are married well before they are twenty-five. Maybe someone French? Beauxbatons turns out a lovely witch.”

Hermione wanted to bend her knife in half. While she was quite aware that their union was to save his life, she couldn’t believe that her replacement was being discussed in front of her. She looked up at Malfoy who sat across the table. He was taking a deep sip from the goblet of elven-made wine.

Nothing.

“Honestly this situation could work quite well for you, Draco.” Hermione’s interest was now piqued by the older witch’s words. “Young Hermione’s reputation speaks for itself. A leading player in the war, friend to Harry Potter, defender of creatures.”

She now turned to Hermione. “You carry a lot of power, dear. You have a household name. The Malfoy name,” she paused for a moment, “has lost a lot of its standing. But with you at his side, Draco could gain some of that respect back.”

Hermione wanted to spit her bite of potato out. Malfoy was now staring at his mother, mouth hanging open.

“Oh, don’t look at me like that, Draco. This is what you need. You have to rebuild the family name, and this is exactly what Hermione’s aim was when she saved you. This is how you get your life back. Isn’t that right, dear?” The blonde witch shot a sweet smile at Hermione whose head was spinning.

Narcissa Malfoy artfully moved pieces across the chessboard and Hermione had the sense that everyone around her was a pawn.

“Of course, it won’t work for Britain to think this was a charity case. It must be that Hermione Granger, the Golden Girl, picked Draco. She saw something worth saving. The story of young love is potentially the best option.”

“Excuse me, what?” Hermione couldn’t believe what she was hearing. She had wanted to help Malfoy, of course, but pretending in front of the entire world that they were star-crossed lovers wasn’t going to happen.

“I daresay it would be helpful for you as well. I can’t imagine the Ministry has been entirely welcoming to someone of your birth.” Hermione glared at the woman who dutifully ignored her.

“The Ministry is slow to change. The Malfoy name might be in the mud recently, but it is an old, esteemed name. It might open a few doors you have found soundly shut. The Wizengamot isn’t going to admit that they weren’t able to stop the Kiss. They’ll let the story remain that you were motivated by love to keep the scrutiny that they were bested at bay.”

She could feel the heat of indignation burn on her neck and chest. How dare this woman hold Hermione’s blood over her own head when it had spilled on the floors of this gilded home. She was just about to stand and aim her wand at the witch’s beautiful face when Malfoy abruptly stood up.

“I'm sorry, Mother, but we must be going now. My stomach hasn’t been well recently. I am still getting used to richer foods.”

Narcissa quickly stood as well, “I could have Pimsey fetch an anti-nausea potion so you wouldn’t have to leave. Also, a hair growing potion- that cut is rather unbecoming on you.”

Malfoy straightened his collar. “I’m also quite tired. I’m building my strength up, but I’m not completely well. In fact, I’d like to use the lavatory and splash my face with some water before the Floo back.” Narcissa accepted the decline but insisted Pimsey fetch the potions for him to take home.

When Malfoy had left the dining room, Narcissa turned back to Hermione.

“I do hope I haven’t offended you. That was not my intention.”

Hermione did not think that was true.

“I just want what’s best for my son. It’s what I’ve always wanted.” How Hermione wanted to snap that not pledging him to Voldemort would have been doing what was best for him but the witch continued. “They will tear him apart if he is left by himself. He is the face of the loss and pain and death that all those people feel. They don't care how old he was or what the consequences were if he refused. They want someone to pay with blood and he is the easy choice.” She looked at Hermione now, her face serious. “Please do not save my son only to leave him to a slower and more drawn-out end. Let him have the life he was meant to have if the Dark Lord had never returned.”

Hermione wanted to reject the entire notion immediately but watching Narcissa Malfoy, Pureblood elitist, beg a Mudblood with such sincerity seemed to have robbed her of words. A moment later Malfoy walked back into the room, face slightly damp.

“I’m sorry, Mother, we really must leave now.” He picked up the potion bottles. They gave their farewells, Hermione still shell-shocked by the events of the dinner.

Once they arrived back at the cottage, he quickly took his jacket off.

“I told you that you shouldn’t have attended.” He was frowning at the bottles in his hand.

“Shouldn’t you be off vomiting a four-course meal back up?” She spat at him.

“Only three courses, we missed dessert. Shame really, Fig’s pear tart is to die for.” He looked tired as he sat on the sofa. Crookshanks came to his lap and he began to pet the beast's fur.

“I’m sorry, were you at the same dinner I was? Your mother has created a ridiculous backstory to this entire thing!”

“Unfortunately, I was there.”

“She wants us to pretend to be in love! She practically found you a new wife while I was sitting right there! Did you notice all the subtle references to me being Muggleborn?”

He sighed heavily. “I warned you, Granger. You’re the one that tried to save face by attending the damn thing. Nobody really wanted you there.” Hermione felt her chest crack, but he had more to say, “I’m sorry my mother isn’t the mother-in-law you always dreamed of. I’m sure the Weasel Matriarch was more your idea.”

The dig was a cheap shot. They both knew that.

Hermione stared at Malfoy indolently sitting on her sofa with his feet propped up on her coffee table, petting her cat.

“Fuck you, Malfoy.”

He looked shocked at her words for a moment, obviously not expecting such a response.

She walked to her room with carefully calm steps. She didn’t look back once, didn’t say a single word.

As she undressed from the beautiful robes she had felt foolishly well-prepared in, she thought about herself and her place in the world.

Hermione Granger, Golden Girl.

Hermione Granger, Muggleborn.

Hermione Granger. Wanted by No One

Notes:

Thank you all for the crazy love and support! It has been absolutely amazing and I’m so grateful for all of you! Please feel to reach out through TikTok or drop a comment, I love hearing from ya’ll!!!

A massive thanks to my bubbly betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, y'all save me from myself.

This was written on my busted iPhone while I pretended to do my ab workout. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 12

Summary:

CONTENT WARNING: This chapter describes Hermione and Draco being forced to consummate their marriage by the Ministry. It is not between Draco and Hermione, it's an act committed against both of them. Please be mindful and check the notes. Feel free to skip this chapter, it will not be a running theme of this fic! Tags have been added.
Notes:

Surprise chapter drop! Thank you so much for all the new readers and the amazing support!

CW: Please read the tags!
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione did not want to be awake today. In fact, she didn’t want today to happen at all.

After tossing and turning all night, she had risen as the sun made its morning ascent. She crept into the kitchen, completing her morning tasks before her housemate and former nemesis made an appearance. Hermione had no regrets about the parting words she had left on, but she didn’t feel like touching the subject quite yet.

She missed the calm mornings that came with living alone. A time when she didn’t worry about brushing her teeth before her first sip of tea or if a black eye needed tending. She could just wake up and be. She slipped into the library with her mug, her socks eating up the sounds of her steps. Settling into an old but comfortable recliner, she lost herself for a few moments in the comforts of a book.

When she heard the telltale signs of life she sighed and leaned back, resting the book on her face.

God, she didn’t want today to happen.

Hermione was aware of what the Wizengamot’s foreboding letter meant. They weren't going to let this drop. Theo had been right, they had something up their sleeves and she hated feeling unprepared for what could only be a test.

Hermione could smell blood in the water, and she wasn't sure if it was hers.

Closing the story about a small girl who loved to read and could move things with her mind, Hermione decided to prepare for the inevitable. When she stepped out, she noticed Malfoy sitting at the kitchen table, a plate of slightly less burned toast waiting. She purposefully ignored the second cup of tea sitting near the plate and went to the kettle to refill her mug. The sting of Malfoy’s comments still smarted in the daylight.

“I didn’t realise you had already made a cup of tea.”

She replied in the form of a shrug.

“I fed the cat.”

Hermione glanced over at the small bowl that was overflowing with kibble. She hummed in response.

“There’s some toast if you’d like.”

She gave a slight shake of her head.

“Oh, come off it, Granger.”

She stared at him, watching as he held her stare back for a moment and then squirmed slightly in the chair, looking away. She refused to let him brush the previous night aside.

Hermione expected an apology. Maybe some light grovelling. She waited to see what he would say next.

“You’re going to act like this when we must be at the Ministry, who wants my head on a platter by the way, in an hour? Really?”

Wrong answer.

“No, what I’m going to do is go get ready.” She took her tea and grabbed a banana as she passed the bowl on the counter.

~~

Forty minutes later they were both gathering last minute items in preparation to Floo to the Ministry. Malfoy kept nervously scraping the toe of his dragonhide boots against the edge of the carpet. If Hermione wasn’t set on being angry, she might have attempted to soothe his obviously frayed nerves.

Too bad for him.

They stepped into the Floo and moments later were stepping out into the Atrium.

The flashes descended them mere seconds after they had arrived.

“Mr. Malfoy, how does it feel to be a free man!”

“Mr. Malfoy, how did you win the attention of Hermione Granger!”

“Mr. Malfoy, do you think you are deserving of the Golden Girl!”

“Mr. Malfoy, did you think of Hermione while torturing your Muggleborn victims?”

The crowd closed in on them like a pack of jackals. Hermione felt Malfoy immobilise next to her, so stiff she was afraid he had been hexed. When she turned, shielding her eyes from a pop and flash of bright light, she saw him standing wide eyed, clearly panicking.

Any amount of calm he had evaporated. Suddenly, he was the boy in the stone chair, waiting to be Kissed again.

Without thinking, she grabbed his hand. He didn’t react immediately, still trapped in the lights around him like a deer but she tugged him behind her.

The throng of witches and wizards devoured the display, flashes popping all around them, but Hermione kept her focus directly in front of her. She just needed to get them to the lifts. The only problem was people kept jumping in front of them. Hermione attempted to push past them but more filled the gaps. With a frustrated hiss, she retrieved her wand and threw a particularly effective Flipendo, causing the crowd to stumble back.

With the path freed, she pulled Malfoy into an empty lift. He was still sunk into himself, shoulders curling in. She shoved him behind her and faced the horde who had righted themselves as they raced to reach the lift, her wand held ready, daring them to try anything more. Flashes continued to snap as the metal doors closed, effectively shutting them away.

Hermione’s heaving breaths were now evident in the quiet of the lift.

“Malfoy?” She turned to the cowering wizard, “Malfoy, it’s alright, they’re gone.”

Slowly, inch by inch, he brought himself up to full height. His shoulders went back as he straightened his black suit jacket with a sharp snap. Hermione tilted her up to his face. Flat features and empty eyes.

Occluded.

“Apologies, Granger. I was caught off guard. Thank you for the rather questionable bit of wand work. Maybe your actions will distract them from me.”

The words were empty sounding.

Any snark or wit that made him Malfoy was gone, replaced with a stone statue that had the ability to move and speak. Hermione hated it. While he wasn’t currently her favourite person, he had at least felt like an ally in this entire situation.

In some twisted way, she had felt comforted by the idea that he would be by her side. Arsehole or not. She was about to say something when the doors to the lifts opened. Malfoy gracefully stepped around her and walked out, leaving Hermione behind.

When she caught up to him, he was strolling into the lobby of the second floor heading towards where Theo and Harry were seemingly arguing.

“There you two are!” Theo cut Harry off mid finger wag. “Did you two get caught in that damnable group of animals? I wanted to warn you, but I couldn’t get to an open Floo, they were blocking them all! And then I got ambushed by The Chosen One.” He motioned his head to a sour-looking Harry.

“We did, but we got out. I had assumed that once I stopped coming to the Ministry, they would have given up.”

“Our love will go down in history, I’m sure.” Malfoy’s voice sounded dull. The worry in Theo’s eyes increased to pointed concern as he took in Malfoy's appearance.

“Why are you here, Harry?” Hermione turned to face him.

“I wanted to talk to you, Hermione.” He glanced at the two Slytherins. “Alone.”

She looked at Malfoy, but he seemed oblivious that someone was even talking. She sighed, “Alright, we have a few minutes before we have our meeting. Just be quick.”

He gently pulled her to a corner. When they were secluded, he grasped her shoulders. “Are you sure you know what you’re doing?”

She wanted to throw her hands up and scream of course not!

Instead, she nodded. “I told you, Harry, I am fully prepared.”

He looked sceptical but resigned. “Fine. I won’t bring it up again. I’m just worried. The Ministry is acting like you saving Malfoy at the last minute isn’t some huge deal, but the Aurors are all talking about how they’ve never seen something like it. People are mad, and now they’re bringing you in and it’s being kept completely confidential. I don’t even have clearance to know what the Wizengamot wants. I’m just… worried.”

Hermione took in her friend's sincere face, and it just fed the gnawing ache in her stomach that promised her something bad was coming.

“I haven’t broken any laws, Harry, I promise. I’m not worried.”

He stayed silent, but his eyes conveyed the message clearly.

Maybe you should be.

“Oi, Harry! Robards wants us out in the field. We’ve got a new case.” Susan Bones held up a file as she waited by the doors that led to the DMLE’s bullpen.

Hermione was thankful for the interruption, “Sounds important. Hopefully nothing too awful.”

Harry released her arms and removed his glasses to wipe clean. “No, not terrible, just strange. There have been a couple of murders recently. All Muggles.”

Hermione quirked a brow, “Do they think someone magical is responsible?”

He replaced the spectacles, “That’s the strange bit. No evidence of magic at all. The victims were beaten to death.”

Now Hermione was fully frowning. “I don’t understand, why would the DMLE be investigating Muggle murders if no magic is involved?”

Harry shrugged as Susan called for him again.

“Gotta go Hermione. Please be careful. Owl me if you need anything.” With that he headed towards the auburn-haired woman.

“It’s time.” Malfoy’s colourless voice spoke out next to her. Theo was tapping his fingers against his legs next to his stoic friend. “I don’t think they’ll let me in. I’ll be waiting here for you both.” Hermione thanked him and walked next to Malfoy to the opposite side of the lobby where the Wizengamot offices were held. They read the plaques on the doors until they reach the office of Augustus Codsworth. The front room housed a desk where a small witch sat who was sending off paper memos with a swish of her wand.

“Hello, we have a meeting with Mr. Codsworth at ten o’clock.” Hermione tried her hardest to keep her words even.

“Wonderful, I’ll let him know you are here.” The witch stood up and made her way around a corner. A moment later she returned, a cheery smile plastered on her face. “He’s ready to see you now, please follow me.”

With each step Hermione felt her heartbeat thump a little faster. Once they were in front of a black door, the witch knocked once and opened it. They entered an open room with walls lined in books and pieces of artwork. A large and ornate wooden desk was positioned in the centre. Sitting in a leather wingback, Codsworth stood up. “Ah, how lovely to see you both. Thank you for coming.”

“I wasn’t aware there was much say in the matter.” Malfoy sat in one of the two open wooden chairs across from Codsworth. Hermione tentatively sat in the chair next to him.

“I do still appreciate the visit. How has married life been treating you?”

Hermione wanted to roll her eyes at the obviously fake niceties.

“The threat of potential incarceration has dampened the mood of the honeymoon somewhat but compared to the Kiss, I’d say rather well.”

Hermione was shocked that even while heavily Occluded Malfoy was able to keep an air of derision. A quality that the round wizard before them didn’t seem to appreciate.

“What are we doing here, Codsworth?” She had grown tired of the Purebloods duelling with words.

The man’s frown of annoyance morphed into a Cheshire grin. He sat back into the leather, leaning forward slightly in anticipation.

“As I mentioned when we met last, the Wizengamot has been investigating the validity of the so-called Gallows Marriage law.”

“It’s a valid law.” Hermione's retort was instantaneous. She was tired of repeating the sentence.

“Yes, well we have come to the realisation that it is indeed valid.”

Hermione’s jaw fell slightly. This was not what she had anticipated. Malfoy sat bored next to her.

“Yes… well I’m glad we are in agreement then?” The purpose of this meeting was even more confusing now.

“Yes, the Wizengamot believes that the law is legal, but a certain stipulation has not been met.”

Hermione began to feel a sinking sensation in the pit of her stomach. “I assure you; all the requirements have been met fully. Despite what the papers may want you to believe, we have never been engaged. Additionally, Malfoy has indeed been living with me. We can prove it.”

“Oh, Mrs. Malfoy, you’ve misunderstood me. The question of Mr. Malfoy’s residence or your past relationship isn’t being questioned. The concern comes from the terms that the two of you must be married to the full extent of the law.” He said this was a self-satisfied smirk.

“Of course we were. You were present. We even have the addition of an Unbreakable Vow.”

Codsworth rested his hands on the desk. “You are absolutely right, Mrs. Malfoy. The matter comes down to the consummation of the marriage.”

Hermione flinched back, a physical response to the words that came out of the ugly little man.

“Consummation is not a legal requirement.” She hissed through her clenched teeth.

Codsworth now fully grinned. “But it was when the law was put into place and being practised.”

She stood up, the chair sliding back with a loud squeal at the sheer force of her movement. “You can’t be serious. That is a gross interpretation of the law.”

“But it is the responsibility of the Wizengamot to interpret such laws. With only the precedent of the cases that you and Mr. Nott brought to our attention to go off, which all had legal dates of consummation, we must assume that that is what was required for the Gallows Marriage.” He leaned back and let the debris fall from the bomb he had just set off in his office.

“How dare you! I fought for freedom in this world, and this is what you try to do with it? I refuse to partake in this!”

“I do apologise, Mrs. Malfoy. I can see how this must be a shock but as you brought this law out into the open you must deal with the ramifications of it. If you do not consummate this marriage Mr. Malfoy’s stay is null and void and as a dangerous criminal, he must be taken into custody. Immediately.”

To this Malfoy finally stood up. “What do you mean, taken back into custody immediately?” His voice sounded detached.

“We have set up a room for you both.” Hermione felt the first wave of nausea. “A ward has been put into place that will signal when the act is complete.” Her mouth began to fill up with saliva. “Once it is complete you are free to leave on your own. If it is not complete, only a select Ministry employee can open the door and Mr. Malfoy would be taken back to Azkaban and the original sentencing would be reinstated.”

“You mean you expect us to consummate it now? Here?” Hermione sounded and felt hysterical.

“I know it’s last minute, but the Wizengamot feels that due to the severity of Mr. Malfoy’s crimes and history, this either must be rectified immediately or he must be taken back. We must think of the safety of the community.”

She swallowed hard, hoping to stop the rising of nausea from ending in her vomiting on the desk in front of her.

“No.” Malfoy’s voice was hard.

“Are you refusing to consummate the marriage then?” Codsworth looked like he expected such a reaction.

“This wasn’t part of it.” Hermione was rubbing her thumb painfully as she dazedly stated the fact.

“Well, as that is the decision you have made,” he stood and pointed his wand at Malfoy, “Incarcerous.” Thick chains appeared and wrapped tightly around thin pale wrists, biting into the flesh.

“What the fuck!” Malfoy’s voice cracked as the iron binding weighed down his limbs. All cool and calm bled out, palpable terror rapidly replacing it. He fought against the chains, panic rising as he realised what was about to happen.

“Mrs. Malfoy, Aurors will escort Mr. Malfoy to Azkaban. You are free to leave. We shall contact you when the new date is set for the Kiss. That is all.” Codsworth gleefully eyed Malfoy as the blonde man futilely attempted to break his bonds.

“Stop!” Hermione was clenching her hands so tightly she swore she felt skin break against the edge of her nails. She swiftly stepped towards Malfoy who was staring at her, pure dread in the now bright eyes.

She grabbed his face and looked into their silver depths. “We have to.”

He furiously shook his head, the movement weighted down by her hands. She held his sharp features tighter. “You'll die. They’ll take you back and you’ll get the Kiss. There isn’t any other way. We tried. Think of Theo. Think of your mother. Don’t let them win.” He held her gaze, his struggling becoming weaker under her palms. Finally, he nodded his head ever so slightly.

She released him and turned back to Codsworth. “Release him. Now. We’ll take part in this travesty of justice of yours.” She spat out every word, rage building rapidly.

Fuck Codsworth. Fuck the Wizengamot. They had been called here as an elaborate play of power. It wasn’t about upholding the law or protecting the community, it was about control, and she was sick and tired of it. Hermione knew that her Gryffindor tendency towards blind bravery despite the consequences was rearing its head, but she didn’t care. She would feel her horror when the dust settled. Codsworth had felt unbridled satisfaction from watching Malfoy in chains, afraid and panic-stricken and she couldn’t stand it.

The older wizard glowered.

“Release him.” Her voice promised consequences.

Codsworth casted the Finite and she felt Malfoy sag slightly behind her, a shaky inhale sounding quietly.

“Very well then. You’ll be escorted to the accommodations we have readied. Immediately.” He glared for another moment, waiting for them to object. When none came, he walked to his door and stalked out.

When they were alone, she turned back to Malfoy who looked drained and so fragile.

“Are you okay?” She looked at his bruised wrists.

“No, I’m not fucking okay!” She flinched at his quivering and broken response.

“It’s going to be okay, Malfoy. We are going to be okay.”

He looked at her, mouth agape, “Merlin’s fucking beard, Granger, how are you so calm? How are you always so calm? How do you not feel any of this?”

She wanted to correct him. To tell him she felt it. She felt the hurt, the hate, the fear constantly. In every moment, every movement, she felt it. But she couldn’t let it catch up to her. She had spent her entire life sacrificing and doing what needed to be done despite how she felt. If she let all of that catch up to her, she would never escape it.

It would ruin her.

Codsworth stepped back in, a nervous looking Ministry worker by his side. “Robinson here will escort you now.”

Hermione inhaled deeply, hoping to fill her lungs with the oxygen she desperately was clinging on to. She didn’t look at Malfoy, just held her chin high and followed the man. The telltale sign of prickling burned her eyes, but she bit her lip, refusing to let the tears fall.

Not here. Not now.

“Hermione! What’s going on?” Theo ran up to them, keeping pace as they walked.

“You need to go home, Theo.” Her voice was quiet.

“What the fuck happened? Draco are you okay?”

The blonde wizard pulled his sleeves down casually, as if adjusting his cufflinks, hiding the marks.

“I’m sorry, Theo, it’s just some Ministry business. Please go home, we’ll have to be here for a while longer. Just some questions to verify we are following all the requirements for the law.” The lie was smooth. He wasn’t even fully Occluded, keeping some hint of emotion in his eyes. This seemed to calm Theo.

“Alright, yeah. Just Floo call me when you get out if anything happens, okay?” Hermione nodded hoping her face didn’t convey what was about to happen.

What was about to be done to them.

Theo left, looking over his shoulder once more before displeasing in a lift.

Hermione couldn’t believe this really was happening. As she and Malfoy walked in silence to the makeshift bedroom the Ministry worker was leading them towards, she felt like she was in a dream sequence. This couldn’t be where she was. This couldn’t be what she was going through. She was Hermione Granger. She was a powerful witch, she was a strong soldier, she was a fighter. Hermione did not feel like a fighter at that moment. She wasn’t sure how much flight she had left in her. What option was there? It was either they submit to the cruel decision of the Wizengamot or let Malfoy be taken back to Azkaban. Was that really a choice at all?

The Ministry worker, who had the decency to look disturbed, opened the door. It was obviously some sort of storage room. Shelves on the walls held an array of items such as extra paper and a mop. In the centre sat a bed. Hermione was positive it had been transformed from a desk or a chair. While it looked sturdy, it was made from the similar looking pine as her desk on the fourth floor.

“Oh God,” she whispered.

Malfoy was stricken, eyes wholly focused on the lone piece of furniture.

With that the Ministry employee closed the door, leaving them to their fate. The magical wards of the room would recognize when the act was completed. Hermione was sure she would have burned down the entire Ministry if they had insisted on a witness for this disgusting display of control. Honestly, she was debating burning down the Ministry anyways.

“You don’t have to do this,” Malfoy hadn’t turned from the bed.

“You heard them, you’ll be sent back to Azkaban. You’ll get the Kiss. Would you prefer that?” For one heinous second Hermione wondered if he really would rather die than touch her. She banished the selfish thought a moment later. Neither of them wanted to be here.

He shuddered but still didn’t turn, “I don’t want to have my soul taken but if I have to commit rape to keep it, I’m not sure it’s worth very much.”

Hermione was horrified.

“You're not the one pushing this on me. The Ministry thinks it’s the trump card, that we will just give up.”

“Maybe we should.”

Hermione shook her head and reached out towards Malfoy’s shoulder. She hesitated for a moment but laid her palm on him. He was still thin, the bone prominent against her flesh.

“It’s not rape, Malfoy. At least not from you. I don’t want you to go back. I don’t want them to win.”

“Gods, Granger, the war really did a number on you. What aren’t you willing to do for the greater good?”

She winced at the truth that seeped into every word but ignored it. She was okay. She would be okay.

“I’m making the offer. You can either accept it and we can get it over with or you can open that door and the Ministry worker will release the ward and take you back. Our hands are tied.”

We will be okay.

He finally turned to her, blinking rapidly, and gave a very slow dip of his chin.

Hermione took a deep breath and walked past him, trying to exude a steady confidence she didn’t feel at all.

Close your eyes and think of England.

She would have laughed at the phrase if she wasn’t positive, it would have turned into sobs.

Slowly, she began to open her robes.

From behind her she heard Malfoy’s breath hitch, but she continued her slow descent down the buttons. She pulled her outer robes off, left in nothing but a thin shirt and her trousers. As the material landed on the floor with a soft hiss, Malfoy seemed to come out of his stupor and walked to the other side of the bed. Hermione didn’t look up at him. If she stopped undressing, she wasn’t sure she would be able to will her hands to continue. She used her toes to remove her sandals and then slid off her trousers. Soft rustling could now be heard across the bed. Still, she kept her head down and focused on delicately removing her shirt. Once it was off she slipped under the covers, the cold bedding causing goosebumps to break out across her skin. Maybe it was ridiculous due to what was about to happen, but Hermione could not bring herself to remove her undergarments in full view of Malfoy.

She heard a clink of a buckle; heavy material hit the floor and felt the side of the bed dip under his weight.

They didn’t move or say a word.

Minutes passed but they stayed with the covers drawn to their chins in silence.

“I’m scared.”

Hermione blinked, not sure if she had made the words up in her head. They sounded so lost and young.

“I’m not going to let you go back. I promise. Let’s- let’s just get this over and done with.”

She finally turned to face him and saw his sharp profile facing towards the ceiling. His hair had grown in slightly, no skin visible anymore. He looked paler than usual and the one arm that was not covered was clenching the material so hard she was afraid he would rip it.

“I’m going to leave my bra on.”

He gulped but made no other movement.

“I’m taking off my knickers now. Remove your trunks.” She figured if she was clinical about it, they could complete the task and be done with the ugly business. She had slept with men before, some she liked, some she thought were attractive, some she just wanted to be held by in the darker moments. This didn’t have to mean anything. She slid the cotton and lace material down the lengths of her legs under the safety of the cover and threw it amongst the rest of her belongings. She looked up at Malfoy, but he hadn’t shifted a centimetre.

“We can be adults about this. Please don’t worry about me, I give you my full consent. Now take your trunks off.”

Still, he didn’t move.

“Malfoy?”

“Right, right okay.”

Much like she had, Malfoy pulled his arms under the covers and quickly dispatched the final article of clothing. When he set himself right, he pulled the covers tightly to his body.

“I-I’m,” Hermione cleared her throat, “I'm not sure what you need to do… ah, to prepare yourself but feel free. I won’t look. Whenever you’re ready just let me know. I can cast a lubricating charm, so we don’t have to worry about… that. I’ll of course cast the contraceptive charm. You can watch me cast that if you would like to be sure.”

Malfoy was once again a statue next to her. When Hermione dared to look at his face, she saw that his expression was blank. Any nerves that had been present were gone.

“Please… please don’t do that.”

He turned his head towards her, but his face gave no hint of expression.

“Do what?” His voice was as flat as his affect.

“Please don’t Occlude.” She wasn’t sure why she didn’t want him to do it exactly. If anything, the cool detachment would make the process even more clinical but the hollowness in her stomach forced her to speak up. “Please don’t leave me on my own.” She knew it was most likely wrong to ask but in the empty storage room of the Ministry, she couldn’t help it.

His blank eyes gazed at her for a moment but slowly, like a veil being lifted, an array of emotions emerged. Anger, sadness, fear. Malfoy looked terrified. His eyes were frantically searching Hermione’s, eyebrows pulled low. His nostrils flared rapidly, and his lips were pressed together so tightly that no colour remained. Hermione realised that the bed was almost vibrating from shaking. It almost reminded her of what she must have looked like the first time she had had sex.

Hermione felt sick.

“Malfoy… have you… I mean surely you…”

His frantic eyes shut as he squinted hard, almost like he was trying to make Hermione disappear.

“You’ve never had sex before, have you?”

He froze, but then gave the barest hint of a shake of his head.

“Oh, God. We can’t… not like… how? You’re twenty-three!”

He flinched like she had slapped him but Hermione was too distraught to care.

“Purebloods hold deep traditions,” his voice was high pitched, “it’s not unheard of before marriage but I just never-then the war happened and I had more important things to think of. O-Once that was over I was on house arrest and then in Azkaban. No time to meet anyone. Not that anyone would want someone like that.” He tried to say the last sentence almost like a self-deprecating joke but his smile looked more like a grimace.

She gaped at him. Stunned by the information set before her. She wanted to claim he was lying but the evidence was clear.

“There were so many rumours at Hogwarts,” she said in a daze.

“I’m not a total lost cause. I snogged a few girls and messed around a bit. I started those rumours to make myself look better. Figured it would help my reputation.” He slid he’s hands to his face, “Fuck, this is embarrassing. Penance for being a lying bastard in school. I assume you aren’t?”

“Aren’t what?”

He groaned. “What do you think, Granger? Are you a virgin or not?”

“Oh. No, I’m not.”

“Weasley, I assume?”

She wanted to be peeved at him asking but decided to have some mercy.

“A few different wizards, but yes, Ron too.”

He let out another groan.

“Hey there isn’t anything wrong with a witch–”

“I’m not worried about your purity if that’s what you’re thinking. I’m naked in a bed at the Ministry on threat of the Kiss with a wife that I barely know who is currently only in a brassiere. I want to Occlude so badly but I can’t because how can I say no to your request when you’re willing to do this. I’m not like you. I’m just… I’m fucking terrified.”

She didn’t know how to respond.

“I’m also well aware I’m being pathetic.”

“You’re not.” She was quick with her reply. Malfoy laughed but it sounded almost like a sob, “You’re not pathetic. You’ve been dealt a terrible hand and you’re doing the best you can. You didn’t choose this.” She looked away briefly, “I completely understand if you want to Occlude. Maybe it’s for the best.”

Malfoy removed his hands from his face but looked down at where they were bunched into fists.

“Occlumency allowed me to survive some truly heinous things. This might be one of those things that I wish I would have put away later, but I’ve had so much taken from me. Maybe it’s fucked up but I want to experience it. I don’t want them to take this.” He stuttered the words as if confessing a great sin.

They already have.

Hermione wanted to say the words, wanted him to know that this wasn’t how it was supposed to happen. Locked in a room, ground down by fear. It wasn’t supposed to hurt like this.

“Do you want me to take the lead?”

He looked up at her. He still looked like an animal caught in a trap, but his pupils dilated slightly, and his cheeks began to turn pink.

“Please. I don’t think I could handle further humiliation.”

She took a deep breath and nodded.

“Are-are you hard?” Her cheeks were burning, and his eyes widened large.

“You can touch yourself to get hard, you do know that right?”

“Yes, Granger, I might be a virgin, but I do know the mechanics of a cock.”

She wanted to burst into flames. “I don’t know what your Pureblood sensibilities allow. Whatever, just touch yourself, tell me when you’re ready.” That’s what she got for trying to be understanding.

With that she rolled away from him, facing the other wall. She was taking inventory of the items that filled the room when she heard a curse. She half turned to stare at the ceiling, unwilling to face Malfoy in case he was exposed.

“What’s the matter?”

No response for a moment.

“Hello?”

An angry sigh puffed out next to her, “I can’t get hard.”

Hermione frowned, “I thought you said—”

“Oh, for fucks sake, I know how to get hard, but I can’t. As it turns out, forced copulation isn’t exactly a kink for me.”

“Do you need help?”

“Are you mocking me right now, because that would be supremely shitty of you, Granger.” She could hear the embarrassment and shame soaked into his words.

Hermione focused on the broom she saw. “I’m not mocking you. I wouldn’t do that. Admitting that this situation is affecting you instead of burying everything means you’re human.”

“By all means, go ahead.”

She slowly rolled to face him. He was on his back with his arms tucked behind his head. He almost looked nonchalant, but the flushed mottling of his neck and the rapid movement of his chest gave him away.

She inched closer towards him.

“Okay, I’m going to touch you, I guess.”

“Please, just get on with it.” His voice was a hoarse whisper. She hesitantly reached for where she thought his length might be but opted to touch his thighs first. He jumped at her hand but when she pulled back, he mumbled to continue.

He was warm. This surprised her somehow, as if his marble like exterior would mean he would feel cold. His skin was smooth, a smattering of fine blonde hair gave a slight texture to the expanse. She moved slowly, recognizing how jumpy they both were, how scared.

As she grazed skin, she pretended that they weren’t at the Ministry. Maybe they were at Hogwarts, sneaking soft touches in stolen moments by the Black Lake. Maybe they were in the cottage, a couple who had married for life instead of death, exploring their bodies under the stars.

Anywhere but here.

She spread her fingertips and grazed them down his thigh and then back up, past his protruding hip bone and towards his stomach. When she reached the muscles that lay under the tightly stretched skin, they clenched causing a small gasp to escape Malfoy’s mouth.

“Cold hands,” he muttered but his face flushed even redder than before. Hermione continued her slow exploration, lightly feeling his chest. He was lanky. He had grown tall, and Azkaban had sucked away any fat, but he still retained some lines of strength. A network of thin scars spread like lightning over his flesh, remnants of a nasty curse in a girl's lavatory. It was a surreal moment. Draco Malfoy, who had always hidden behind his name and his blood, allowing her to discover every secret his body had ever held.

She swept her hand back down and decided to go further. She lightly dipped her finger into his belly button and then trailed the blonde hairs that descended until she reached a thicket of hair. They felt curlier than the hairs on his head she noted curiously. As her hand slipped lower, she heard him suck in a breath.

“Fuck.”

The word was half choked as he shook. Hermione gripped her hand around him and gave a slow drag up and then back down. He wasn’t the largest she had ever touched but his skin was just as smooth and warm here as the rest of his body. Hermione felt her own heart racing in her chest, sweat was gathering at the back of her neck. She continued to stroke him, and his half hard erection grew beneath her touch. The muscles of his arms strained even harder beneath his head, but he stayed unbelievably still. Hermione gave a slight twist of her wrist and a low moan erupted from his throat. He quickly bit his lip, but low gasps still escaped through.

“I- I think I need to stop.” His voice was low and shaky, “If we want any chance to continue, I need to stop.”

Hermione hadn’t expected to feel such a rush of power while touching Malfoy. She also hadn’t noticed how wet she had gotten. She rubbed her thighs together. The realisation made her feel slightly sick. They were being strong-armed by the Wizengamot. Nothing about this was supposed to be good or enjoyed.

“Right, of course.” She grabbed her wand and quickly cast the Contraceptive charm, feeling the icy coldness in her abdomen. She thought for a moment and cast a lubricating charm as well. She didn’t need it but didn’t want Malfoy to know that. Now she was drenched and flushed.

“Do you want to be on top or shall I?” Her voice was shaky. She needed to compose herself. Malfoy didn’t look composed at all as he sat up. His pupils were blown wide, black almost encompassing the entire iris. His whole body was flushed, and a light sheen of perspiration glistened on his forehead.

His mouth was slightly parted, lips full and pink. He slowly leaned towards her. “I’ll be on top.” She nodded and laid back fully, taking deep breaths, hoping they would calm her.

“Can you take your hair down?”

She hadn’t expected the question and didn’t move.

“Please?” His voice was husky and without thinking too in depth at the odd request, she pulled her hair free from its braid. Curls flowed out around her, fragrant floral notes releasing into the air as she shook out the tresses.

Malfoy looked entranced. He reached out a hand slowly and touched a few strands of the curls, so gently.

The act felt so intimate. Too intimate.

Hermione needed to gain some control. To remind herself where they were. What they were doing.

It’s not rape.

But it was close.

“Are you ready?” He seemed to shake himself out of his daze at her words and nodded, once again looking nervous.

She pulled the covers down, exposing her lower half. For a moment she was embarrassed by what he would see. Her hips were wide and she had a small mound over her stomach which she sucked in slightly. She had curls at the junction of her thighs that she kept trimmed but couldn’t bring herself to remove. Her knees had scars from falling as a child. Her arm had a scar that was currently visible. Malfoy didn’t trail down her form, just stared at her face looking for hesitation. He leaned over her so gently, as if he was scared that he would crush her.

“You won’t hurt me,” she whispered as she tugged him even closer. He rested his hands next to her head, and looked into her eyes, grey meeting brown. She saw a peek of black contrasted against his pale forearm and tilted her head slightly to avoid the serpent that rested there. Hermione reached down and grabbed him once more, causing him to shiver. She positioned him between her legs, lining them up together.

He didn’t move.

“Malfoy.”

“This is wrong. It’s so wrong and I know it’s wrong and I’m still… my body still…” his words were quick and panicked, “I’m not like them, I swear, I’m not like the others. I never… I never hurt anyone like this.”

Hermione grabbed his slightly hollowed cheeks, stopping the crazed stream of consciousness.

“Malfoy, stop.” He kept looking at everything frantically while holding his body so still.

“Draco.” His name on her lips felt strange and unexpected like taking a bite of peach and tasting a tart apple instead. Hearing her say it must have been equally odd because he seemed to come back to her. “You’re okay. We are okay. You aren’t choosing to do this to me. This is being done to us.”

“But… my… I’m still…” he looked down where he was still hanging heavily in shame.

“You are just reacting to touch. That’s normal. That’s okay. I know you aren’t getting off on this. I know you’re scared. I’m scared too but we will be okay.” Hermione hoped that if she said it out loud enough, she would believe it.

“Push forward, Draco.”

He hesitantly inched his hips forward and they gasped in unison as he slowly entered her. Hermione bit her tongue hard, tasting blood.

“Oh, fuck,” his voice sounded reverent. Hermione squeezed her eyes shut.

“Please, tell me what to do.” Hermione felt herself clench at his groaned words and she dug her nails into her palms.

“Just… just keep moving,” she bit out. He nodded feverishly and started pistoning his hips in and out. The movements were awkward, too frantic, and hard. Hermione winced as his head knocked into hers.

“Shit, sorry!”

“It’s fine, keep going.” Her voice was tight.

He was breathing rapidly, his hips snapping quicker. Hermione knew he was getting close.

“Shit, fuck- it’s been like thirty seconds but- shit,” he was rapidly muttering.

“It’s fine, it’s fine,” Hermione was mumbling over and over. She felt herself begin to build higher through the friction, repeating her earlier assurance to herself. It was a reaction to touch. It had nothing to do with him.

She refused to touch herself to finish. If she had an orgasm it would feel like giving in to this heinous situation.

“I’m going- I’m going to-!” and with that his muscles contracted, and he let out a low moan. His hips continued to push into her as he rode out the tiny shockwaves of the aftermath. When they were done, he held his weight above her panting heavily. He looked up and Hermione froze. He was staring at her with such wonder and horror. It made her feel even more naked than her actual visible skin. Hermione wanted to turn away but was caught in his gaze. They just stayed there, silent while their bodies were intertwined in each other. With a sigh, Malfoy rolled off Hermione. They once more laid side by side like they had when they first arrived in the room, naked and spent.

“Did you… were you able to…?” Malfoy trailed off.

Hermione shook her head gently.

“I figured I’d be rubbish.”

Hermione stared at him and then quickly looked away. She didn’t believe in lying about what happened in bed, but she recognised the raw vulnerability of what had just occurred.

“I can’t finish like that. Or at least that alone.”

He looked confused.

“I have to touch myself.”

A look of surprise passed his features. “Is that common?”

“Common enough.”

He seemed to think it over but said nothing.

They stayed in bed side by side for a few minutes more until Hermione sat up. She quickly grabbed her wand and casted a Scourgify on both of them and then slipped on her knickers. “We should get dressed and go. We’ve been in here for almost an hour.”

They continued to put their clothes on in silence.

Once they were both dressed Hermione checked the ward. Now that the requirements had been met, the door could be opened without the aid of a Ministry worker. They were free to leave.

They navigated in silence down the hallways. As they passed by clueless employees Hermione felt like she was wearing a scarlet letter on her robes. They walked to the offices where members of the Wizengamot resided. The petite secretary for Codsworth looked at them for a moment before waving her wand to let her boss know he had visitors. The entire trip had given Hermione time to fully sink into her outrage. Without waiting for a response from the witch, she stalked into the office.

Codsworth was sitting behind his desk looking unamused.

“I can’t lie, I didn’t expect to see you both.”

“Fuck you, you miserable old wanker.” Malfoy's snarled words shocked Hermione for a moment. She had never heard them while he was acting in the role as an ally.

“If you ever pull something like that again I’ll—”

“You’ll do what exactly, Mr Malfoy? You escaped the Dementors on a technicality. Your name means very little, and you are on a tight leash. I don’t think you understand the position you are in.”

Malfoy took a step forward and Hermione grabbed his arm to hold him back. He was seething as he pulled against her. Codsworth chuckled. Hermione moved in front of him and glared at the sitting smug bastard, taking a step closer.

“You might not think much of his name, but it’s attached to mine now. I’ve been told before it’s a household name. I’ve also had some experience taking down small men who needed to impose their will to feel big. I promise that the one before you was a great deal more terrifying. I'd remember that for the future if I were you.”

Codsworth’s chuckle stopped, and he bared his teeth lightly, “Is that a threat, Mrs. Malfoy?”

Hermione smiled slowly, it felt sharp on her face.

“I wouldn’t dream of making a threat. However, I am very fond of promises.”

She held his stare a moment longer and then turned, pulling Malfoy along with her.

Hermione’s steps were filled with anger, banging loudly down the hall. Photographers were still milling about near the Ministry Floo, and she wanted to scream. She reached for her wand in her pocket and set off a small explosion in the far-off corner, making sure it was contained to not hurt anyone. The ensuing chaos was enough distraction for her to pull Malfoy in a fireplace and Floo back to their cottage.

Hermione shook ash off herself and looked up to Malfoy, who was giving her a look of awe.

“What?” she snapped.

“You’re fucking ruthless.” The words should have been an insult, but his voice was low, and his pupils were blown.

“I don’t like people backing me into corners or bullies.”

“I know. I can still feel your slap from third year.”

“You deserved it.”

“I’m sure I did. Something also tells me you liked it. You’re kind of violent, Granger.”

Hermione flushed but raised her chin “Only when provoked.”

“Codsworth was provoking me, not you.”

“He made us fuck in a broom closet. If that wasn’t provocation enough, I don’t know what is.”

Malfoy stiffened and the colour drained from his face, all banter gone.

“I’m going to go bathe. There’s food in the fridge.” Hermione turned on her heel and fled to the sanctuary of the shower, locking and silencing the door behind her.

She and Malfoy had had sex. In her anger she had somehow skipped over that event. As she began to undress for the second time that day, she started to sniffle. With every piece of fabric she removed, she cried harder. As she washed sweat, sadness, and anger off her skin, she sobbed.

She cried for herself, constantly giving pieces away when the occasion called for it.

She cried for Malfoy, who had lost something that should have been an expression of human connection, but instead was used as a punishment.

Hermione cried under the warm sprays of water until she felt like she couldn’t cry anymore, proud she had kept it in until she was alone.

She wished that today hadn’t happened.

Notes:

This was a heavy chapter to write. It had a lot of emotions, specifically around how the Ministry forced Hermione and Draco to consummate their marriage against their wills. This will NOT be a reoccurring theme.

Thank you all SO much for all the support, it has blown my mind! I did not expect this at all when I decided to jokingly start writing a fic in my kitchen. Ya'll are the best!

Big thanks to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for speed editing so we can do these surprise drops!

This was written on my iPhone with a towel on my head because it was def a shower thought that I ran with. Some of ya'll called it too!
Chapter 13

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione left the note on the kitchen counter.

She didn’t consider it running away. Maybe stepping away? Just for a moment at least. She had woken up in the dark with the slightest ache between her legs, gripped with so much anxiety that she felt like she would sink into her mattress from the weight of it. Before she knew what she was doing she had gotten dressed covered in a Muffliato. She jotted down a quick note telling Malfoy she would be back that evening. He was an adult. He could survive on burnt toast for the day.

She walked through her wooden door and out of the front garden.

Hermione loved the country roads at dawn.

As the sun peeked over the horizon, all of her surroundings caught fire. A beautiful hue of soft orange cascaded over the trees, the fields and the small homes that could be spotted in the distance. She walked softly, soaking up the quiet hum all around her. New light meant rebirth, change, a beginning. All the things Hermione desperately wanted to grasp onto with her bitten and battered fingers.

She thought of soft moans and hot breaths against her neck, long fingers tangled in her curls. Hermione screamed into the air blooming with sunlight.

Destination. Determination. Deliberation.

With that, she Disapparated.

When she reappeared, she was in an alleyway in Muggle London. Though still early in the morning, London was already bustling. A sharp contrast from the sleepy quiet she had come from, cars whizzed by and early-birds walked the pavement.

During her sleepless nights, Hermione had taken to wandering the streets. In the early years after the war, she hadn’t been able to go anywhere magical without being stopped in the streets. People flocked to her, sharing stories of friends and families who had been lost, who had been found, some just thanking her for her efforts. At first it had been cathartic, viewing her trauma through their eyes and finding hope in their stories.

As time went on, it became a burden, a reminder of all that she had lost, the terror she had experienced daily searching for Horcruxes with little food and no sleep. What she hadn’t anticipated was the hollow ache that came when people stopped wanting to talk about the war, when it became taboo to talk about the wounds that remained.

So, when Hermione found herself in a moment where she wanted to disappear and be unknown, she spent a day in Muggle London.

Sh, stepped inside of a small coffee shop that catered to those who rose early and ordered a coffee from a sleepy barista with a row of rings through her ears. She sat at a table and sipped her coffee alone.

As she sat, she watched people come in and out and wondered what their lives were like. Was the man with a baseball cap married? Did he love his partner? Was the woman in the yellow dress happy with her job? Did she feel respected? She continued to drink her coffee, contemplating what her life would have been like had she never received a letter at eleven years old.

When she had spent enough time there, Hermione got up and began her walk to the British Library.

She loved the British Library. Her parents had taken her for her no eleventh birthday, the last one spent together before she had found out she was a witch. They had wandered through the exhibits, looking at old books and manuscripts and collections of insects and stones. Hermione had been in awe of such a massive place dedicated to learning. She hadn’t wanted to leave and had refused to until her parents promised she could pick a book from the shop.

Hermione meandered around the large library and pictured she was there with her parents once more. Perhaps her dad was grabbing a cup of tea and a scone at the coffee shop. Maybe her mother was just a few steps behind her, lingering on a display of Chaucer’s ‘Canterbury Tales’. They would grab lunch afterwards and make fun of her dad’s inability to deny a dessert despite being a dentist. She walked around the exhibit, smiling.

After she was done roaming through memories, Hermione stepped outside and headed towards her next destination.

Since the war she had tried to keep in contact with her classmates. Some relationships had fallen through, lost in passing time and changing tides, but some had lasted.

Hermione found herself in front of a red painted door. She pushed through, bells sounding off above her.

“Hermione!”

Dennis Creevey resembled his brother so fully, that sometimes it hurt to look at him.

“Hello Dennis, thought I’d pop in for a visit.” She gave the tall wizard a hug. “How’s the gallery?”

Dennis had left the Final Battle an only child. The war had taken both Colin and his childhood. Hermione had remembered the lost fourteen-year-old at the funeral, holding a broken camera so tightly she thought it would crumble in his small hands. She had talked to him, just briefly but hadn’t forgotten his haunted eyes staring at the space next to him where a brother should have been.

She had sent him a letter in the months after the war, on a particularly bad night for her nightmares. It had somehow surprised her to find a letter written back a week later. It had started a correspondence that ended up lasting for his entire stay at Hogwarts.

In an attempt to hold on to some sort of connection to Colin, Dennis had taken up photography. He had become quite talented at it. Once he had finished school, he had decided to open a photography gallery in Muggle London with his reparation funds.

“Oh, it's been going really well! We had a few pieces sell at auction recently and had a small exhibit last week! All very exciting!” Hermione smiled at the chronically cheery wizard.

“I’m getting hungry, you up for a late lunch?” She peered into the small currently empty gallery space.

“Of course! Let me just lock up.” He quickly went to the back and then returned, locking the red door, and flipping a small business sign to ‘Closed.’

They ended up at a small cafe that served hearty sandwiches. Once they had their food, Hermione looked up at the mousy brown-haired man. “I’m so sorry I missed the exhibit, thank you so much for the invitation.”

He waved his hand. “Don’t be silly, I know you’re busy with work.” He gave her a small knowing smile. “Plus, I’m sure you have had plenty on your plate. I guess congratulations are in order?”

She choked on her caprese panini, quickly patting her chest to dislodge a piece of bread.

“I’ve got to say it was a bit of a shock. Never said a word, all these years. But then I thought to myself, ‘Dennis, I’m sure she had a good reason, it’s Hermione Granger. She knows what she’s doing. If she thinks Malfoy is worth it, he must be worth it.’”

Hermione stared at the food on her plate. She swore she could feel a weight on top of her that felt like a body. She wanted to correct him, say that it wasn’t like that, that it was purely to save Malfoy’s life, but she couldn’t. The events of the previous day stopped her. She couldn’t claim that they were strangers to each other anymore. If she brushed off their relationship as just some form of charity, what they had done, what she had given up, somehow felt so much worse.

“Just tell me, was it really a love spanning a war and a bridging of two worlds like the papers say?”

Hermione rolled her eyes at this. “No, I can promise you that it wasn’t that. I was helping him find out how not to receive the Kiss and things just… happened.”

Dennis nodded. “You know, I never agreed with that sentencing.”

Hermione was surprised by this. “Even with everything? You being Muggleborn and with Colin?”

Dennis thought for a moment. “He was a bully, don’t get me wrong, but he never really seemed like the bloodthirsty type. He didn’t seem to enjoy what he did as the other Death Eaters did. I tried to think of myself in his position. He was only sixteen when he was meant to kill Dumbledore. The same age Colin was when he died. That's too young. We were all just too young.”

Hermione remained silent as she traced a finger through the condensation on her glass of water.

“I guess what I’m trying to say is I trust your judgement. You’ve always done the right thing.”

She gulped.

That was her. Hermione Granger. Always doing the right thing.

Or at least the things that needed to be done.

“How’s work going?”

She lagged for a moment, not fully hearing his question. “Oh, fine, fine. I’ve been focusing on some different proposals.”

“That’s great. Taking a break from the werewolf laws?”

Hermione wanted to bang her head on the table. The amount of pushback she got for the centaurs was laughable compared to the werewolves. “Yes, just stepping away for a little. I’d been working on trying to get approval for a Lycanthropy Wing at St. Mungo’s with Hannah Abbott but it’s currently all gummed up in the system. Hopefully we’ll get some kind of movement soon. But enough about boring Ministry work, tell me about you. I feel like I haven’t seen you in ages.”

“Well, I’ve actually had a bit of a standstill myself. I’ve been looking into opening a gallery in Diagon Alley.”

Hermione squealed, “Dennis, that's amazing!”

He held up his hands, “Well, slow down with your congratulations, it hasn’t happened yet and sometimes it feels like it won’t.”

“What do you mean?”

He sighed. “I’ve tried to lease two separate shops, but both times I’ve been denied. One of the buildings is still available. The offer is initially accepted but when we try to put the paperwork through, I get hit with letters saying that the building needs work done before it’s legally able to be leased or the building isn’t ‘licensed to be a gallery,’ or whatever that means.”

Hermione frowned at her obviously distressed friend.

“It’s just frustrating because I think it would go over really well. So many of the current art galleries are full of paintings and not photography. People still see photography as hobbyist work or for just the Prophet. I want to display how it is art and showcase how magic can elevate it.” He took a glum bite of his sandwich. Hermione wished she could use her Ministry pull to help get him a shop but who was she kidding, she couldn’t even get her own laws passed.

“I’m sorry, Dennis, that’s really awful. I have full faith that you’ll achieve it though. You’re right, the Wizarding World is behind on what they consider art to be in a way that the Muggle world isn’t.”

It was behind in a lot of ways actually.

Hermione washed down the ghost of a memory of scars and hair beneath her fingertips with more cold water.

~~

Hermione Apparated just outside of her small cottage as the sun began to set. The night loomed over her, promising things she wanted to forget. The click of the front gate was deafening in the quiet. She tried to open her front door as gently as she could, considering Silencing herself, but ultimately deciding against it. She couldn’t hide forever.

“You’re back.” Malfoy sat on the sofa with a book in his hands.

“Yes. Sorry. I had errands.”

He hummed, leafing through the pages gently.

“Yes, I found your note. It was a relief after I woke up to a disembodied scream from outside. You can imagine my general reaction to not finding you anywhere in the house. After searching for you for twenty minutes I found the note in the kitchen when I was looking for supplies to send an Owl to Potter.” His voice was casual, and he still didn’t look up from his book.

Hermione cringed, remembering her howl of frustration into the morning air. She hadn’t even considered how he would have reacted to that.

“Oh right, I’m so sorry. I thought I saw an animal when I walked out to Disapparate.”

He finally looked up; one pale brow lifted. “Not the reaction I would have expected from a witch who battled Bellatrix Lestrange and lived to tell the tale.”

It had taken her a minute in the dim light of the lamps but now that she had a good look at him, she saw how empty the features were.

Occluded.

Hermione felt that gnawing in her gut once more. “I don’t like when you do that.”

“I'm not sure what you mean.”

“You just bury yourself. It’s like talking to a wall.”

He made a noise similar to a laugh. “I wasn’t aware you wanted to talk. You didn’t seem very chatty in your haphazard note.”

“I had errands to run. I do have a life of my own. A life that existed before you came into it and one that’ll keep existing once you’re gone,” she snapped. Hermione didn’t like the creeping guilt she felt steadily filling her.

“Just admit it, Granger. You ran away.”

She scoffed, “Why would I run away from my own home?”

“I don’t think it was your twee cottage you ran from.”

The words hung in the air.

“I don’t have time to deal with this.” She walked to her room, Malfoy set the book aside and followed her.

“Running away again. I didn’t peg you as a coward. If this is how the Order operated, I’m surprised Potter didn’t stay dead. Is this why you keep that little bag stocked with supplies by the Floo? Ready to disappear at the first sight of danger? I have to say I was surprised to still see it this morning.”

She spun around and saw him leaning against the door frame.

“Coward? You’re one to talk. I’ve never seen you stand up to anyone. Even now you’re too afraid to even fess up to your own emotions. You’re throwing a tantrum and not even feeling any of it.”

He stared at her for a moment, his empty eyes boring into hers. “Fine. You want to see my emotions? Have at it, Granger.”

Like the sunlight when Hermione first arrived back at the cottage, Malfoy’s stoicism seeped away, leaving the man underneath the mask.

He looked awful.

His eyes were glassy and strained. Deep grooves of anger etched into where smooth stone had once been. His brows were no longer quirked with dry humour but furrowed low, making the dark shadows below so much more vivid. His broad shoulders were sunken in on themselves, hands that had once leaned casually against the wood of the door frame now dug in, knuckles stretched taut.

“You left me.” His accusation was so bitter, so heavy with anguish.

“No- I had errands…” Hermione’s excuse felt thin on her lips.

“You left me.” He trudged forward, shoulders still hunched. “I woke up to what could be described as a blood-curdling scream, something that in my experience has never been a good sign, and you were fucking gone! Don’t forget, I know your screams. I’ve heard them before, and I knew it was you. I ran outside barefoot, yelling your name. I had no idea what happened. No wand, no way to communicate quickly. I tried to Floo call Theo, but it was closed, probably because it was the crack of fucking dawn. If I hadn't found that scrap of parchment with barely a sentence on it, I would have had Potter storming the cottage!” His face was bright red, and he was scraping his nails against his scalp.

“You fucking begged me to not leave you on your own at the Ministry and then you left.” His voice cracked on the last word as he bent forward, his hands wrapped around his stomach like he was protecting a soft underbelly that was suddenly exposed.

“Oh gods, you said I wasn’t a monster, that I chose the only option available.” His words were edging on sobs as he shook. “It was my first fucking time, and it was… that. I never get a real choice. My life is constantly one fucked up thing after another. I’m always left destroying everything around me.”

Suddenly he stood up. The movement startled Hermione who stepped back. “This is who I am. This is who I’ll always be.” He ripped the sleeve of his cotton shirt up, revealing the brand Hermione had refused to acknowledge before this moment.

It was an ugly mark. The black ink had partially faded but the snake and skull were still raised. It looked raw and sore, like he had tried to scrub it away.

“Look at it. You wouldn’t yesterday. Do you think I haven’t noticed how you refuse to even look at it? You know what this means. What it makes me.”

He wrapped his arms around himself, unconsciously seeking comfort in the only person he had had in the last year. Tears were spilling freely, and he half choked on his breathing, his sobs echoing in her bedroom.

She continued to watch for a few moments longer. She wasn’t sure entirely how to react. What had happened the day before wasn’t okay. It would never be okay, but in her rage, she had misplaced some of her anger on another victim. It was something she knew rationally, but emotions weren’t rational, and she couldn’t help the resentment that had woken her up that morning.

Malfoy had had just as much taken from him.

She watched the way he rocked alone in the middle of her room, filled with disgust at what he had done.

Maybe he had lost even more.

His sobs became quieter, replaced by soft whimpers.

She hesitated for a moment but remembered Dennis’ words from lunch.

He was so young.

Without thinking, she reached out for his hands. He flinched from her touch, as if it burned him. For once she knew he wasn’t thinking of her dirty blood, but instead of his dirty hands, still stained with what he was forced to do.

She reached out again, this time tugging him towards her bed. Lost in his own grief, he allowed her to gently prod him towards the pillow and lay down. She softly padded to the other side and laid down next to him.

It was a familiar scene, the two of them side by side in a bed, but this time Hermione was not scared.

She slipped her fingers into his and gripped his hand tightly. She felt the slight lingering tremble under her touch.

“Why are you showing me this?” His voice was a soft whisper. Her skin broke out in goosebumps, the hairs on her body standing up.

“This is my night sky.” She stared at the twinkling collection of stars enchanted above them that often accompanied her on the journey to sleep.

“Why… Why did you make it?”

Hermione thought about the question.

“It makes me feel safe. It brings me back for a moment. To a time when life was simple. When I was just a child.”

“Bad things happened when we were children.”

Hermione bit her lip. She looked away from the constellations and turned to face him. He was staring straight up, his profile a sharp contrast to the dark behind him. Lips were parted slightly, and his chest rose slowly. “Good things happened as well. Some of my favourite memories were at Hogwarts.”

She watched as his Adam’s apple wobbled. The faint light of the sky illuminated his features. His eyes looked shiny once more. “It was the last place where I was a person.”

Hermione could barely hear the words spoken into the air.

She gripped his hand harder. “I think you’re a person, Malfoy.”

“Not a good one.” As he uttered the words a tear escaped the corner of his eyes, quickly sliding down his pale skin and splattering delicately against the pillow.

“You’re picking up the pieces. That’s the best you can do.” She had turned her head to face the enchanted ceiling, not sure she could handle any more emotion. “That’s the best any of us can do.”

They lay there, hands clasped tightly, recognising the lifeline that the touch offered them. It was such a strange contrast, choosing to seek comfort in the other instead of being forced.

They laid there under the gleam of the conjured stars.

Two people, picking up the pieces.

Together.

~~

Hermione felt a warmth beside her.

In her sleep-addled mind, she wondered if it was either Harry or Ron who had fallen asleep next to her on the sofa of the Gryffindor Tower.

Despite her sage advice that they needed rest for their lessons, the trio would often stay up too late playing chess or Exploding Snaps. Hermione would often wake to the sounds of snoring, covered in crumbs from some treat Mrs. Weasley had sent Ron.

She rolled over, ready to pull herself up the steps to her dorm room, when she caught sight of blonde hair.

Hermione opened her eyes wide.

In a moment, she remembered where she was. Who was lying next to her.

Hermione didn’t know how long she and Malfoy had stargazed at her conjured ceiling, hands clenched together. They hadn’t talked, silently agreeing the wounds were too fresh. It wasn’t exactly a comfortable silence, but it was easier than delving into the torrent of emotions that lay between them.

So they had stared at the stars until they had given in to their exhaustion.

Hermione hadn’t dreamed. No parade of faces, no pictures being wiped of her image, no black hair spilling into her mouth as her arm bled. Nothing.

It had been blissfully dark.

She peered over to her fellow bedmate.

He lay on his side, curling into himself. With his hands tucked under his chin and face unguarded, he looked unimaginably innocent. Any lines of his face were perfectly smoothed from the freedom of sleep instead of being heavily Occluded. He was leaning towards her side more than she had remembered, like he had gravitated towards her warmth.

I haven’t felt warm for a while.

Hermione reached a hesitant hand out towards the sleeping man. Taking care, not to wake him, she slowly brought her fingers to his lips, stopping right before she made contact with the pale pink skin. She felt the hot air blow from his nostrils as he took slow and steady breaths.

She wasn’t sure why she did it.

She wanted to trace the lines of his mouth, but didn’t dare.

They hadn’t kissed. Not once.

It had felt too personal and too real for the situation they had been in. Despite him knowing what the inside of her body felt like, they had not kissed. Hermione had never had sex with someone she had never kissed before. She wondered if he had wanted to. If he had fought himself and hated that he had even been curious. Something that was usually a normal part of sex was a step too far.It made her heart squeeze.

After a few more breaths, she drew her hand back to herself and tucked it under her cheek. She continued to stare at him until he stirred. When his eyes finally opened, they immediately found her, still staring.

“Good morning.” His voice was raspy from sleep. He reached up to his face and rubbed his eyes that were slightly swollen from the night before.

“We need to talk.”

“That’s never a good sign.” He tried to joke but she saw him swallow hard.

“We can’t keep doing this.”

His face twisted, a look of worry erring on the side of panic. It was so brief, just half a breath, and then he quickly composed himself. “Now that definitely doesn’t sound good.”

“We are in this together. We both know the Ministry isn’t going to just roll over. What they did…” she paused, biting her lip but still holding his gaze. “It was inhumane, but they did it anyway. They demonstrated the kind of power they have over us. We have to stick together, or they will pick us apart, piece by piece.”

“We could tell Potter. I’m sure he’d have the Wizarding World ready for another war by noon.”

She wanted to laugh, but the idea of Harry finding out made her feel ill. “We can’t tell him.”

She looked away. “Your reputation couldn’t handle it. People would judge you based on who you were during the war, and I’m not sure you’d come back from it. For me, I’d like to think that my place is concrete in this world, but your mother wasn’t entirely wrong. People still have their reservations about Muggleborns. They would look at me and just see an outsider trying to cheat the system.”

She didn’t say that she also couldn’t bring herself to disillusion Harry like that. He had given his life for his community, and finding out what the Ministry had done would have hurt him in a way Hermione wasn’t sure she could be a part of. She didn’t think Malfoy would understand or appreciate that sentiment.

“So what are you suggesting we do?”

She took a deep breath. “I think we should consider your mother’s suggestion.”

He looked dumbfounded. “You mean we should pretend we are a couple?”

Hermione flushed. “I would like the record to show that it greatly pains me to admit this, but she might be right that we can both benefit from this situation if we just play along.”

“You mean past me getting the chance to live?” She ignored his comment.

“Not in love, but maybe not acting like two individuals who barely know each other. We don’t have to claim some great romance, but maybe we can let people think it was more than just stopping the Kiss. We haven’t told many people the actual circumstances, and I think it should stay that way.”

“What about the Aurors, the members of the Wizengamot, the blasted wretch who walked us to that closet? What makes you think they won’t talk?”

Hermione winced at the mention of the room. He seemed to take notice and frowned.

She began picking at her cuticles. “The Wizengamot will keep it quiet. Not only do they not want to show they weren’t able to circumvent the Gallows Marriage Law, but now they would have to confess to forcing us to consummate the marriage under threat of the Kiss. That’s assault.”

It was his turn to flinch. She touched his hand that rested on the pillow in front of her lightly.

“Not by you. By them, to the both of us.” She tried to convey with her eyes where she rested the blame.

He did not appear fully convinced, but he didn’t shake her hand off as she continued. “The Wizengamot took a risk, but I think they knew we wouldn’t share what they had demanded. At least not right away.”

Her words may have been calm, but she once again began rubbing the raw skin of her thumb.

“You’ll have nubs if you don’t quit doing that.”

Hermione looked up and caught Malfoy pointedly staring at her nervous tick. She flushed and stopped, slipping her thumb into her fist to hide the evidence.

“If you’re going to hit me, thumb out. I learned that the hard way.” He smirked gently.

Somehow the heaviness syphoned out of the room with the snarky comment. She smiled right as a loud yowl made them both jump.

“Oh god, I didn’t feed Crookshanks yesterday!” She jumped up, ready to check her beloved and neglected friend for harm, when Malfoy stood up.

“Don’t let that fat cat fool you; he had his meals yesterday.” He stretched his arms above his head, his white cotton shirt riding up slightly so the blonde hairs that began as his navel appeared. Hermione blinked and quickly looked away, following him to the kitchen as he went.

“Oh. Well, thank you, Malfoy. That’s… a little surprising.”

He snorted. “If you think I’m either incapable of feeding a cat or terrible enough to let it starve, we may have a rockier time convincing people we are a couple than anticipated.”

“I never said that. I just didn’t think you’d remember. I mean, he’s my cat and I forgot.” She stood in the kitchen and watched Malfoy once more put too much cat food in the bowl.

He stooped low and rubbed the large beast under his chin. “I know what it’s like to be hungry. I wouldn’t do that to someone else. Even an ugly fat cat.” He smiled affectionately as Crooks began to purr.

Hermione stood in the kitchen and watched the scene unfold, her heart steadily beating faster. Malfoy looked at her curiously, tilting his head slightly to the side.

“I’ll make breakfast.” She moved towards the counter, turning away from him and the inexplicable feeling of her heart squeezing.

She needed food and a strong cup of tea.

They ate their eggs and only slightly burned toast. The entire affair had felt almost normal, and it unsettled Hermione when she realised how comfortable she was with his presence in the home.

She washed the dishes as he threw away the pieces of bread that were too far gone. She made note of what needed to be purchased for the fridge while he asked for an extra loaf, ‘to practice.’ Eventually, she excused herself to the library, claiming she needed to get some work done.

She was thankful when the door shut behind her, putting distance between them.

She wasn’t lying about needing focus. Hermione had neglected her work even more than her sweet pet in the last few days.

Hannah Abbott had reached out to her again.

The guilt ate away at Hermione as she read the heartfelt letter asking for an update on the Lycanthropy Wing at St. Mungos.

Hannah had become a distinguished Healer after Hogwarts. Much like Hermione, she learned healing as a necessity for the war but had come to realise her affinity for the subject. Madame Pomphrey had given her a highly sought-after recommendation, which allowed her to become an Apprentice at the wizarding hospital. They had been hesitant to take on Hannah, a Muggleborn, in fear she would ‘try to change the system.’

A fear that had come to fruition.

In the past four years since completing her apprenticeship, Hannah had introduced highly effective Muggle interventions in the world of Mind Healing. It had been a barely tapped field, with Wizarding folk and their taboos about mental ailment.

The war had brought an influx of patients who desperately needed specialised help and did not know where to go. Having grown up with a Muggle mother who was a counsellor, Hannah had begun her pursuit to bring Muggle therapies to St. Mungos. At first, she had received large pushback, but as more people requested her ‘radical therapy,’ it had been begrudgingly accepted.

Once it had been implemented more readily (usually by the younger Healers), Hannah had shifted her attention to Werewolf victims.

Greyback and his pack had left a trail of survivors, all dealing with the effects of lycanthropy. Not only did the cruel disease cause physical ailments, but many suffered mental effects from the ridicule and segregation they faced, as well as the demands of their shift. Hannah had come up with a brilliant idea to dedicate a new wing in St. Mungos to focus on the healing of those infected.

The Wizengamot had denied the requests to use Ministry funds to open the wing, claiming the resources allotted for healthcare were for ‘magical individuals,’ and werewolves were considered creatures. Hermione had written letters, demanded meetings, and had even tried to hold a Wizengamot session, all to no avail.

Once relieved that the Wizengamot would not budge, Hannah began fundraising privately. Many of the families donated what they could, but it was not enough. She had been about to give up when a large anonymous donation had been sent, providing the needed funds. Hannah had been elated at the news.

Paperwork began flooding in, demanding proof of safety for the rest of the hospital and proof that the designated wing would be as effective for those with lycanthropy as claimed. Once one demand was addressed, another would be made. It had been almost two years since they had gathered all the Galleons and they were still no closer to having the wing built.

Hermione banged her head on the new letter, knowing she had to write back, saying there was still no movement. She put it in the back of her stack of work that needed to be completed- a problem for another day.

Hermione edited, sent letters, rewrote proposals, and was lost in her work until a knock sounded at her door. Malfoy opened it, sticking his head through.

“I was just curious how long you planned to be in here.”

Hermione glanced up, noticing the room had become much dimmer than she had realised. She glanced at her watch, shocked. She had been working for nearly six hours. Her stomach let out a loud growl, causing her to flush. “Oh, right. I will wrap up now, I suppose.” She pried her stiff fingers off her quill, stretching her hands and wrists out.

“I knocked earlier. I made a sandwich and wanted to know if you were hungry, but you didn’t respond. I figured you were busy and didn’t want to interrupt.”

She nodded, feeling her stiff limbs ache as she walked into the kitchen to grab something to eat.

“Thank you, that was kind. I didn’t even hear your knock.”

He hummed as he moved throughout the kitchen, grabbing her a plate for the fruit she had just taken out of the fridge with a sense of familiarity.

“Were you able to get lots of work done?” He set the plate before her before reaching for a serviette to pass. Hermione accepted hesitantly, watching him collect two cups from the cabinet.

“I was, thank you.” She bit into a strawberry, trying to cover the frown she felt growing on her face.

“That’s good. Can’t have you slacking at work. How would we pay for the beast’s food otherwise?”

She had been about to remind him that if they were running out of cat food, it was because he was feeding Crookshanks far too much at each meal when he handed her a steaming mug.

“Here, I made tea.”

She was so happy with the weight of the mug in her hand that she took a large sip instead and froze.

Chamomile.

He had made her chamomile despite his hatred for it. He had made the tea she liked for her.

Because he knew she liked chamomile in the evenings.

The events of the day raced through her mind. Waking up next to him, watching as he fed her cat, the way they moved together like two people who shared a life, the damn tea in her hands.

She felt like she couldn’t breathe.

Like a kettle beginning to boil, the awareness of their life together grew hotter until it bubbled out, leaving Hermione feeling panicked.

“I’m so sorry, I completely forgot I told Ginny I’d go over for dinner.” The lie came out before she could even stop to think.

Malfoy looked at her with a confused expression on his face.

“I haven’t seen her since before we were married and haven’t replied to her Owls. She has a lot of questions, understandably. I’m not sure how much you remember Ginny Weasley, well, Ginny Potter now, from school, but if I don’t go see her soon, she will come visit us and it won’t be pretty. She has a mean Bat Bogey hex. I’ve seen her use it quite a bit on her brothers. Ron mostly.” Her cheeks warmed as she rambled.

Malfoy’s curious expression grew into panic. “I thought you said we had to stick together.” His voice was quiet.

“I’m not running away again, I promise. I just really need to visit her, and I need to do it by myself first, at least to explain. I’ll be back in a few hours.” She felt the guilt build with each word.

“Right. Of course.” His words were terse. He set the pot he had been holding down. “That’s actually perfect. I wanted to visit my mother anyway. She wanted to see how I was doing after the last dinner. I doubt you want to join me again so soon.” Any signs of trepidation were gone, and he sat down at the table and began to sip his tea.

She nodded, suddenly feeling awkward about her reaction and his, but not willing to take it back. She quietly thanked him for the mug and walked to her room to get ready.

After she dressed, Hermione lingered for a few moments in her room. Oh, how she wished she had come up with an excuse that didn’t involve visiting one of her best friends. She knew how that sounded but the idea of facing Ginny was…

Daunting.

But less daunting than facing Malfoy for the rest of the evening.

When she entered the sitting room he was once again reading on the sofa, looking nonchalant.

“Well, I’m off. I’ll be back in a few hours. If you need anything, you can Floo call me.”

“I’ll be fine. I’ll head to my mother’s later. Have a good dinner. Send Scarhead and She-Weasel my kind regards.” All if it was spoken down towards the book open in his palms.

She was effectively dismissed and was thankful for it.

When she appeared in the fireplace at 12 Grimmauld Place she almost didn’t want to step out. She hadn’t thought her plan through, wanting to make a quick exit. She was about to Apparate to just about anywhere else when she heard a voice.

“Hermione?”

Shit.

Ginny Potter stepped in front of the Floo, drying her hands on a dish towel. She took one look at Hermione and threw the towel over her shoulder, crossing her arms.

“You have a lot of explaining to do.”

~~

Hermione sat at their kitchen table holding a cup of mint tea. She hadn’t been able to stomach the chamomile Ginny had originally offered.

It tasted like shame.

Ginny set a small plate full of biscuits on the table and sighed as she sat down at the table herself.

“Oh, Hermione. What have you gotten yourself into?”

Hermione’s grip on the cup was almost painful, the heat burning her palms.

“I had to do something. The world was so ready to let him be punished and I just couldn’t watch. You didn’t see him, Ginny, how he looked when he was about to be Kissed or when we made our vows at Azkaban. It… it was…”

“That bad?”

Hermione shivered. “They beat him. He was in dirty clothes. They shaved his head, and he was all cut up from it. He was so thin. He’s still thin. He couldn’t even keep food down; that’s how little they fed him. He kept getting sick.”

“That's awful, and I don’t agree with how he was treated or even his sentence, but you married him. That’s… that’s serious. I’ve always trusted your choices, but when Harry told me, I can't lie, I was furious that you had done something so reckless.”

Hermione was picking apart a biscuit Ginny had handed her, watching as the baked dough crumbled in her hands. She rubbed the grains between her fingers.

“I was so sure before. I had been terrified, but I had been so set. It felt right, like I was doing the right thing. It felt important. And then… I did it, and I realised how unprepared I was. For the media, for all of our friends to find out, to deal with Malfoy…”

“Has he been really awful to you?”

Hermione pinched off another piece of the biscuit. “No. Not really. He’s just… so damaged.”

“That makes sense. The war ended five years ago for us. His war only ended the other week.”

Hermione didn’t know how to tell her friend that she wasn’t sure her war really had ended five years ago.

“He’s different, Ginny. There are moments when he is so honest that it’s painful to hear. The way he talks about not being hungry or cold anymore. He can still be such a menace, don't get me wrong, but he is… real now. He used to almost feel like a caricature to me. The embodiment of Pureblood prejudices and generational wealth, but now he feeds my cat wearing trackies, and I don’t know how to feel about it.”

Ginny burst into laughter. “I didn’t think I’d see the day when Draco Malfoy would get a soul.”

“He’s always had a soul. That’s why we are in this predicament. I was trying to save it.” Hermione mumbled but Ginny waved it off.

“Is that why you just showed up here? Because you recognised Malfoy as a person instead of a cause, and it scared you? And now you're freaked out that you might not hate that person? You’re lucky I was here, by the way; we have a three-day break from training.”

Hermione flushed and pulverised another piece of biscuit.

“For someone so smart you can be so dense.” Ginny quipped.

“Hey!”

“I’m kidding, I’m kidding! But really, isn’t that a good thing? You married someone you might not hate. That sounds like a best-case scenario, right? You have five years out, and then it’s done. Who knows, maybe you’ll want more than five.” She wiggled her auburn brows.

“But it’s him, it’s Malfoy! He was awful!”

“Five years is a long time. We aren’t kids anymore. We aren’t in a war anymore. He made a lot of terrible mistakes and was a right ass, but I, for one, am too tired to keep the animosity going. I’m not saying to trust him blindly, just let him show you who he is now. And don’t hate yourself for maybe liking it. All I’m getting at is that maybe it’s okay for you to be curious about him and for him to be curious about you. You don’t have to keep everyone at arm's length.”

“I don’t keep people at arm’s length.”

Ginny gave her a pointed look.

“You and Ron were a thing for months, and he never even slept over.”

Hermione’s cheeks burned. “I don’t sleep well, and he snores.” She thought of pale hands tucked under a pointed chin and took a sip of her tea.

“You’ve secluded yourself a lot. We all try to be respectful of your space and time, but it worries me. We just want you to be happy.”

There’s a lot of pressure in that.

“You should bring him around sometime, the ferret.”

“Maybe don’t refer to him as the ferret and I’ll consider it.”

Ginny raised her hands in surrender, smiling. “Anyways, do you want some dinner? The roast should be finished soon.”

Hermione considered it for a moment. “No, I should probably be getting back. I told Malfoy I wouldn’t stay too long.”

Hoping he hadn’t left yet for Malfoy Manor, she thanked her dear friend for always hearing her out and Flooed home.

“Malfoy?”

The sitting room was dark. The cottage was silent.

Hermione sat on the sofa.

It hadn’t been this silent in what felt like ages. She had slowly gotten accustomed to the soft sounds of another living soul. The padded thumps of footsteps, the quiet rustle of a page being turned, the mutter of frustrated words, the sounds of laughter once even when Crookshanks had stepped into a pot of ink.

As an only child, Hermione had always appreciated her solitude. Hogwarts had been a difficult lesson in cohabitation. She had learned to live with the smell and clutter of someone around her, but as a necessity. Now, alone on the sofa in her sitting room, Hermione noticed how quiet her life had been before.

How silence could be deafening.

Crookshanks jumped onto the cushion next her and began pushing his paws into her thigh, a steady rhythm.

Hermione had run away again, and in return, she had been left.

Notes:

Hello! Thank you all SO much for the love and support for the fic! It has blown me away! Thank you for all the amazing messages and comments. I know this fic is very angst-filled, so when you're feeling sad as you read, picture me tapping away on my phone with the screen half an inch from my face, probably eating a snack.

A massive thank you to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for always being down for a surprise chapter drop and from saving all of you from reading me unedited lol.

This was written on my iPhone while I played Passenger Princess. Read with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 14

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione had waited late into the night for Malfoy to return. She had given up at midnight, leaving the nest of blankets she had made on the sofa, which Crookshanks had taken over the moment she had stood.

He had never said how late he would be, she reminded herself. He had told her where he was going.

More than I did, she thought as she lay awake in bed.

It had taken her ages to fall asleep. Every time she was close to drifting off, she swore she heard the beginning whoosh of the Floo, causing her to jolt awake.

After trying counting sheep, counting backwards from one hundred, and trying to think of absolutely nothing at all, she finally slipped into oblivion.

~~

Hermione awoke to a loud crash. She sat up and fumbled for her wand, heart racing. It had been a loud thump, like something falling hard to the ground. She silently slipped off the bed and creeped to the door. Casting a Muffliato on the handle, she turned the metal slowly.

Another crash came from the sitting room. Hermione could hear her own heart pounding in her ears and prayed it wasn’t audible as she entered the tiny hall.

The only light came from the single lamp she had left on in the sitting room. The faint glow cascaded into the hall. She couldn’t see into the room from her position. Hermione quickly debated whether to go for a defensive or offensive spell. Before she could decide which spell to use, the sound of a frustrated hiss came from the room. She rushed in, an Incarcerous half out of her mouth.

“Shit, stop! It’s me, it’s me!”

Hermione stopped mid-spell but held her wand high.

For the second time in their union, she had her wand held at the ready to hex Malfoy. Only now he was sprawled out on the floor.

“Is that your wand, Granger, or are you just happy to see me?”

She would have been less surprised if he had belted the opening verse to Celestina Warbeck's “A Cauldron Full of Hot, Strong Love.”

“Malfoy, why are you on the floor at…” she glanced at the clock on the wall. “Bloody three in the morning? I thought you were an intruder! You’re damn lucky I didn’t blow you up!”

He was in a very rumpled suit. Half of his shirt was untucked, and his jacket was only on one arm. “Naughty, naughty, Granger, always so violent. I like it though. It feels real.” He smiled at her, eyes glassy and cheeks red. “I wanted to take my jacket off, but I got stuck.” He burst into laughter as he rolled on the floor.

“Are you drunk?” He smelled like he had been sitting in a barrel of alcohol.

Giggling, he got to his hands and knees before finally standing. “Why, yes I am, and it feels fucking fantastic.” He managed to manoeuvre his way out of the jacket, throwing it to the floor.

“Yes, well, I doubt it will in a few hours.” Hermione glanced at his face which was smudged with dirt. His lower lip was bleeding from a small cut and his cheek looked lightly stained, like a bruise that had been healed but hadn’t quite faded. “Did you get into a fight?”

“Yes, Granger, I was bare-knuckle brawling with my mother. She’s got a mean right hook.” He rolled his eyes slowly, dragging the movement out to make it as over the top as possible.

“You didn’t answer my question.”

He sighed loudly, pushing the air through his mouth hard and sagging his shoulders. “Oh, so now you want to talk to me. Are you sure? I don’t want to run you out of your own home with my mere presence.”

Hermione rubbed her thumb, unsure of what to say.

“It’s very surprising, you know, the great Hermione Granger, afraid of me. You never were afraid of me in school. I said the nastiest things I could think of, and you just ignored it. Or gave it right back. It was so fucking frustrating. It made me want to be mean to you even more. I wanted to make you squirm.”

He gave her a sardonic smile. “Now you can’t stand to be near me. It’s okay, I understand, I can’t stand myself either.” The admission was said almost like a joke, but Hermione didn’t find it funny.

“It’s not like that.” Her words were quiet.

"Really? It’s not? Well, that’s a fucking relief because for a moment, it seemed like you couldn’t be in the same room as me without looking for an escape.” He landed heavily on the sofa, leaning back and flopping his head on the backrest.

“Things are just… a little raw still. Since the Ministry.” She shuffled to stand next to him.

“Yes, I’m aware and it’s so fucked.” He looked at her and smiled, a dreamy look on his face. “That’s the most intimate I’ve been with someone since the war.” He let out a snort. “Ha! Maybe ever. And it was against my will so I wouldn’t have my soul sucked out. And do you want to hear the really fucked up bit?”

He sat forward, leaning towards her slightly. “I still liked it. I had to close my eyes so I wouldn’t see the disgust on your face, but I still think about the way you felt.” He slurred the words in a whisper, staring Hermione right in the eyes, searching.

She couldn’t breathe, couldn’t respond to his words.

He sighed while leaning back once more. Hermione stood and watched as his breathing slowed and his muscles relaxed. When she realised he was asleep, she hesitated for a moment, but grabbed a throw and laid it over him so he wouldn’t be cold, all the while wondering what the hell the hell had just happened.

“You left.” His whisper was soft as she tucked in the blanket. Before she could respond, his sigh faded into a quiet snore.

Hermione watched the dishevelled wizard before her, not knowing what to feel. She had obviously hurt him. That was clear. What was a million shades of murky was why he had felt so hurt.

The Draco Malfoy she had known had been childish and vicious.

The Draco Malfoy she had expected was aloof, biding his time until he could be freed from her.

The Draco Malfoy that was passed out before her was something else entirely.

Hermione sat down in the armchair and watched him sleep. She would find no such reprieve herself tonight.

~~

When he finally stirred, Hermione was curled up in her chair drinking a cup of tea and reading a book.

“Merlin’s Beard.” His voice was scratchy as he groaned.

“Ah, you’re awake.” She shut her book and rested it on her bent knees.

Malfoy groaned again and scrubbed his face with his hands. “Two mornings in a row, Granger. A man might get the wrong idea about his better half if this keeps up.”

He opened his eyes and looked confused as he took in the sitting room. “Am I still in my very expensive Elven-made suit on the sofa?”

“Do you remember last night?”

Hermione could see his tongue glide over his teeth under his lip and then poke out to touch the dried blood that laid there, wincing slightly when it made contact with the small cut. His eyes flickered to her for a moment before moving towards his pants which he smoothed.

“I remember going to the Manor and maybe taking part in some libations.”

Hermione laughed in protest. “You were pissed. You stumbled in in the middle of the night, nearly scaring me to death. I found you on the floor.”

He looked back to her, visibly uncomfortable. “Ah. I see.”

“Look at you, you’re obviously hurt again. What the hell happened, Malfoy?”

He stood, clearing his throat. “Not your concern.”

Hermione was on her feet, setting the book on the coffee table as she went. “Like hell it’s not! What aren’t you telling me?”

He walked into the kitchen. “Nothing you actually want to hear. Do you have a Pepper-Up potion by any chance?”

She stood behind him, fists on her hips. “Tell me what happened now. You can’t just show up hurt and not expect me to ask questions. I’m responsible for you.” She held up her hand where the marks of the Vow were etched into her skin.

He sighed and leaned casually against the counter. “Fine. I may have taken a midnight stroll through the Manor gardens. Turns out they made some changes that I wasn’t aware of.”

Hermione stared at him. “You expect me to believe you got hurt in a garden? What, did you try to fight a hedge and lose?”

“Ever so witty. I might enjoy it if my head didn’t feel like it was kicked in by a Thestral.”

“Maybe if you actually gave me answers, I would find you a Pepper-Up.”

He rubbed his fingers across his eyebrows. “Though I’m not sure how it’s your business, if you have to know, I walked a little too close to a Venomous Tentacula.”

Hermione paled slightly.

“Obviously I am fine, but in my inebriated state, I tripped over a bush trying to get away from it. Landed flat on my face. Pimsey helped treat my battle wounds, but I have a feeling I wasn’t a particularly easy patient.” He motioned to the faint shadows of bruises. “I didn’t let her finish before deciding to Floo back. There you have it, Granger, my sordid tale. You and your Muggle infernal afterlife can stop bothering me about it now.” He held out a hand. “Pepper-Up, please.”

Hermione walked to a cabinet and grabbed a small vial and handed it to him. He carefully grasped it, making sure no skin contact was made.

“Why did you drink so much?” She almost wished she hadn’t asked but his drunken words haunted her.

Malfoy’s hand clutched the vial and his eyes turned hard.

“Now that, you don’t get to know, Granger.”

He turned and walked out of the kitchen and to the toilet, closing the door firmly behind him. The latch rang loudly in the now empty room.

Hermione let out a shaky breath, beginning to feel the weariness of all the emotions, the lack of sleep and the events of the past few days. A full day of work needed to be completed still, including replying to Hannah.

She walked to the cabinet for another Pepper-Up.

“Strange,” Hermione thought to herself. She could have sworn she had an extra vial but as she searched the small apothecary cabinet, she could produce none. Sighing and walking to her beaded bag by the Floo where she knew she had extra potions; she made a mental note to brew another batch.

~~

Three weeks went by in an uncomfortable impasse.

They had interacted with each other minimally, passing each other in the kitchen when Hermione would cook food, or he would make tea.

Always Earl Grey. Never chamomile again.

Hermione wanted to bridge the widening gap that had turned into a cavern seemingly overnight but didn’t know where to start.

How did she begin to figure out his emotions when she barely understood her own?

She had expected to get married and continue to live her own life, separately. The best she had hoped for was he would remain civil as they cohabitated for the required year. Then he had come out of Azkaban in pieces and so different from what she had expected. The easy and clear path she had anticipated was muddied.

His willingness to be vulnerable, the way his friends cared for him and how he reciprocated it, the way he looked at her cat, it was all so surprising.

Hermione didn’t like surprises.

She didn’t like being unprepared and she was so wholly unprepared for whatever this had become.

She found herself looking at him, waiting for some reaction, whether it was anger or hatred, but it never came. He never glanced at her direction and never said a word past ‘thank you’ or ‘please’.

When she left the cottage to get groceries or to Diagon for supplies (usually glamoured to not attract attention) he never asked questions. In the evenings he would read in the sitting room, never reacting to her comings and goings. He visited the Manor a few more times, as well as Theo’s. If he drank, he stayed quiet when he came home, which was typically late into the evening when Hermione was already in bed.

Sometimes she stayed up until she heard the familiar sound of the Floo. She would listen to his footsteps, trying to imagine what he was doing, how he looked in the dim light.

His hair had grown minimally longer. Hermione desperately wanted to ask why he hadn’t used the hair growing potion his mother had insisted on but bit her tongue whenever she had felt the urge.

Once she had questioned the faint darkness on his cheek that she swore resembled an almost fully healed bruise, but he had just stared at her. He didn’t say a word, just stared her dead in the eyes and then took his book to his room.

She wasn’t sure why but she had to lock herself behind her closed door for a few hours after that, refusing to give into the pressure behind her eyes. She hadn’t built the courage to question him much more.

Instead, she worked.

From when she woke up until she fell asleep, Hermione poured all of her energy into the Department of Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. She had probably made Anthony mad with the number of Owls she sent in a day, making sure to give Bathilda extra treats for the increased trips.

Once again, she had hit a wall for the Lycanthropy Wing. The Ministry had sent more inquiries, this time demanding exact dimensions of the wing with all safety measurements listed that would be in place to protect the rest of the hospital. They had already requested this twice before but made new demands each time, such as more rooms, fewer windows, more wards. Each demand delayed the process, sometimes by months. Hannah had been understanding but had requested to meet Hermione for lunch. She felt guilty by the idea of once again disappointing the sweet blonde but agreed.

Hermione stepped out of her room, looking at her watch. Malfoy was reading on the sofa once more. She couldn’t make out the title as he held it against the pillow in his lap.

“I’m going out for lunch.”

Silence.

“I should be back in just a few hours.”

A turn of a page.

“I’ll bring something back for you. What do you like?”

He shrugged his shoulders, not looking up.

Hermione felt a twinge of annoyance build at the maddening man.

“Try not to get any more mysterious bruises while I’m gone. People will start talking.”

He tsked. “Nobody cares if I’m hurt or not. Your reputation will remain intact.” He glanced up for a moment. “Well, as intact as it can be for marrying a Death Eater.”

She sighed, exasperated already by his emotionless snide remarks and walked out of the front door then outside the wards, Disapparating away.

~~

 

“Thanks for meeting me, Hermione.”

“Of course! It’s been too long.” Hermione smiled. “I’m sorry the Lycanthropy Wing is delayed again. I’ve started the required paperwork but there isn’t much more that can be done for the moment. Thanks for meeting me in Muggle London too. It’s been a little difficult with the photographers in Wizarding areas.”

Hannah gave a sympathetic smile. “Gosh, I can’t even begin to imagine. How is Draco handling it?”

Hermione was startled at the mention of Malfoy. “Oh, okay, I suppose. I think it’s a little overwhelming for both of us, but it’s been harder on him I’d say.

Hannah nodded. “I should imagine so. Someone who’s been so isolated for so long, suddenly being swarmed by people who are demanding to know everything about him, that would be disorienting for anyone. Especially someone who already didn’t have a lot of confidence around others as is.”

Hermione looked at her surprised. “I remember him being very confident and arrogant growing up.”

The blonde nodded again, carefully chewing her bite of pasta. “Arrogant, yes. Confident? No. People who are truly confident don’t have to prove how confident or important they are.”

“I can’t imagine what he wouldn’t feel confident about. He had the money, the name, the looks.” Hermione blushed as the last quality slipped out of her mouth, but Hannah didn’t seem to think twice about it.

“A lot of those Purebloods were so similar. They lived a seemingly charmed life, but they never seemed to have any fun. While the rest of us got to be children before the war, they were like little adults. Everything they did was so meticulous and controlled, afraid to do something that was considered improper. That isn’t healthy for a developing mind and Malfoy was at the top of it. He had expectations placed on him before he was ever born. His parents promised him to Voldemort the moment they became followers. Those are very big shoes to fill.”

“So, he had to bully everyone because he was expected to?”

Hannah smiled sadly. “I doubt Lucius was kind to those around him. Malfoy was a bully because that was all he was ever taught to be.” She gave Hermione a curious smile. “You know, as his wife, I thought you would have more to say about his redemption.”

Hermione scraped her fork against her plate. “The papers may have come to a conclusion of their own that isn’t exactly how our marriage happened, and we may have chosen to not correct them.”

Her friend hummed to show her understanding. “I wondered as much.” She paused for a moment. “That was a lot to give.”

“I know, people keep telling me as much. Him included.” Hermione stabbed a leaf of her salad.

“How are you both doing with that arrangement?”

Hermione set her fork down and rested her chin on her fists, the frustrations and worries that had been building over the weeks, forcing their way out. “It’s tense. I know I wanted to help him, but I don’t know how to trust him. If I even want to trust him. Some people tell me to give him a chance, others warn me to stay away. You know, I thought I was over all the schoolyard bullying, but sometimes I find myself waiting for a sharp barb that doesn’t come.”

Hannah had always had a way about her that just made you want to tell her all your secrets.

“Those are all normal feelings. Marriage can be difficult without any of the additional problems you both are facing. There isn’t a straightforward way to navigate this situation.”

Hermione hung her head. “I think he’s trying but I- it’s like I can’t handle it when he does.” The admission somehow felt shameful.

“You’re used to being on your own. You like control. You feel safe relying on yourself.”

“That’s not true. I have lots of friends. I have Harry and Ginny and Ron- I rely on them a lot.”

Hannah shook her head. “Ginny is wonderful, but she’s away training half the time. And I love the other two, but this situation may be a little nuanced for them. You often ignored Malfoy in school, Harry and Ron met him head on.”

Hermione started rubbing her thumb again.

“Do you think you see parts of yourself in him? Malfoy, I mean. Two people who have felt separated from the world since the war, trying to navigate their current lives. That realisation could be a scary thing, learning that maybe you aren’t so different from someone you had a complicated past with.”

Hermione chewed her cheek, tasting the metallic tinge of blood. “Let’s say there was some truth in that, and I had pushed away a little too far. How do I talk to him?”

The question made her feel cut open on the table before her, but Hannah just smiled lightly. “You just start talking. Be honest if you can. Show him you’re there. I’m guessing he hasn’t had many people to rely on in a long time. Time will help too.”

The idea made her stomach turn slightly but she agreed.

“You could also bring him to St. Mungos. I think many people could benefit from a Mind Healer.” She eyed Hermione.

They let the topic drop after that, focusing on ways to get the Lycanthropy Wing to be accepted. They ate their food and enjoyed the company.

“Did you Floo to the Leaky?”

Hermione shook her head, “No, I Apparated into the alley behind the restaurant.”

Hannah looked a little nervous. “Please be careful, especially at night. There have been a rash of attacks. I think someone even died.”

“In the Wizarding world?” Hermione hadn’t read anything in The Prophet.

“No, they have been Muggle. Maybe Floo to the Leaky next time and stay on the more public streets. The alleyways make me nervous. Even with magic someone could get in a sucker punch and leave you defenceless.”

The idea made Hermione’s stomach roll. As they parted, Hermione agreed to Owl as soon as she received any news about the Lycanthropy Wing.

She made sure to have her wand out while she walked to the Apparition point. When she appeared before her cottage, she felt suddenly heavier at the thought of coming face to face with Malfoy.

Her nerves were apparently wasted.

When she entered the cottage, it was once again empty. He hadn’t mentioned going out, but he hadn’t exactly been transparent about his whereabouts.

She sighed as she sat on the empty sofa, petting Crookshanks. She noticed a book on the coffee table. She guessed it was what Malfoy had been reading before she had left. When she picked it up, she noticed the cartoon drawing on the cover. Matilda. Hermione opened the book to where a scrap of parchment separated two of the pages.

“The books gave Matilda a comforting message: You are not alone.”

Hermione touched the words with the tips of her fingers, imagining Malfoy reading them for the first time. She wondered what they made him feel.

Did they bring him comfort like they had brought her when she was a child who felt a step out of sync with those around her? Or did they highlight how lonely he really was like they had for her as an adult?

Just then, the fireplace burst into green flames.

“Hermione!” Theo’s disembodied head appeared.

Hermione stood up and quickly made her way to the flames. “Theo, what’s the matter?”

“Can you come over? Now?”

“Is something wrong? Is Malfoy there?”

“Can you just— oh make him hold still! He’s going to get blood on the carpet!”

Hermione felt her heart drop. “Is he hurt? Is he there?”

Theo once more looked at her. “He’s here. Please come over now.” With his demand known, his head disappeared.

Without hesitation, Hermione stepped into the now empty fireplace and used the Floo to Nott Manor. As she stepped out chaos whirled around her. Theo was yelling at Blaise who was holding his hand gingerly to his chest and Pansy was attempting to get Malfoy to lay down on a sofa.

Attempting and failing.

“Don’t make me use a sticking charm, you idiot! Tippi can’t heal you if you’re gallivanting around!” The raven-haired witch was waving her wand threateningly.

“Um… excuse me, what’s going on?”

Theo looked up and audibly sighed in relief. “Oh, thank Merlin, you’re here.” He gave Blaise another blistering glare and walked over. “Draco came over in a foul mood. He started drinking fairly heavily. I thought, hey, why not let the poor man drink, I’d probably drink too after what he’s been through but… it took a turn.”

Hermione finally caught sight of the wizard who was evading a very angry Pansy. He was dressed in his usual uniform of a dark sharply cut suit. His eyes were bloodshot and cheeks flushed, obviously inebriated. Hermione gasped as she saw the blood dripping from his nose and the swelling that was causing his left eye to shut. He was briskly walking around furniture as Pansy now attempted to heal him herself, Essence of Dittany in hand. Hermione wanted to wince as precious drops of potion hung haphazardly from the tip of the glass dropper.

“I swear to Salazar Slytherin himself that I will bind you if you don’t sit down!” Pansy’s anger only seemed to goad the man on, but Hermione suddenly was hit with the memory of him thrashing in chains at the Ministry.

“Stop, stop, let me try to calm him.”

Pansy turned to see Hermione and huffed. “By all means.” She promptly handed Hermione the vial and sat down on a chaise lounge, sipping deeply from a flute.

Hermione took a deep breath and neared Malfoy, slowly, as if approaching a wild animal. “Malfoy, you’re hurt. I need to heal you.”

The blonde grinned at her. “It’s you, my beautiful wife!”

Hermione’s heart thumped at the way his eyes shined up at her, the adjective making her cheeks pink.

“And it’s you, my once again beaten and bloodied husband.” He laughed at her words, droplets of blood splattering out of his nostrils. She inched closer to him. When her hand made contact with his sleeve, she gently led him to sit on the sofa. He fell onto the cushion with another loud laugh.

“Come to lick my wounds?” He spoke quietly, letting only her hear him. Pansy and Theo were both scolding Blaise now who looked shamefaced. “My own personal Healer.” His voice was low and raspy.

Hermione felt her neck flush as her heart began to beat faster. “I wouldn’t need to heal you if you stopped getting hurt.” She delicately let drops fall from the dropper in her hand, watching as they absorbed into the beaten flesh. The moment was like when he had been released from Azkaban with only one markedly different detail. Instead of staring at the wall in front of him Malfoy was gazing directly into Hermione’s face. As she dabbed and wiped, he continued to stare, his eyes tracing the contours and shapes of her features. They lingered on her lips and trailed down her neck, slowly. She gulped, attempting to calm her racing heart.

“Now where would the fun be in that, Granger?” His words were deep but slurred gently at the end. He finally shut his eyes, his breathing becoming softer as she continued to work, hands slightly shaky. Once she was done, she recognised his sleeping form and sighed.

She stepped back and watched him sleep for a moment before turning to the small group huddled to the side.

“Okay, one of you better start talking.” Her voice pulled them out of their conversation.

Theo looked slightly sheepish. “I told you, we let him drink thinking he just needed to blow off some steam.”

Hermione nodded. “Yes, I remember that. I’m more curious about the bloodied nose and black eye.”

It was Blaise this time who stepped forward, head slightly hung. “That was me.” Hermione remembered the man cradling his hand when she had arrived.

She had the sudden urge to hex him. “Why?”

Theo stepped closer to her. “We were all having a fine time, I thought. Drinking, talking, having fun. Draco had been obviously on edge when he got here but seemed to mellow out. Out of nowhere he just started… going after Blaise. At first it was like mean banter. Blaise was good natured about it and laughed it off but… it got vicious. Let’s just say he really knows how to hit where it hurts.” Theo glanced back at Blaise who was staring at his shoes. “I know Draco can be a bastard, but this was different. It was like he wanted to get hit. You should have seen the way he just smiled after Blaise got him in the nose. I tried to stop them, but it was like he was rabid, just kept spouting off more shit and Blaise got him again in the eye. Pans Stunned him until Blaise calmed down. When we Rennervated him, it was like he came out of it. Still piss drunk of course but acted like nothing had happened.”

“Honestly, I wanted to hit him myself.” Pansy glanced at the sleeping form on the sofa. “Blaise shouldn’t have hit him maybe, but I also don’t blame him. He broke his thumb in the punch though.”

“You have to keep your thumb out of your fist.” Hermione said be words automatically, still dazed by the new information.

“Yeah, the git said that.” Blaise was staring at Draco. He looked back at Hermione. “Sorry to bother you. He wouldn’t listen to any of us. We hoped maybe you could talk to him. See if you can convince him to be Healed.”

“I don’t know if I’d say I have that kind of sway.” Hermione thought back to the cold exchange before she had left to meet Hannah.

“I mean, he listened to you immediately after we tried for nearly half an hour so you must have some sort of power of persuasion.” Pansy was studying her over the rim of her glass.

“Maybe he should just sleep it off here. I doubt he’ll wake up after all he’s had to drink. I still have his room ready.” Theo gave Hermione an apologetic smile.

She agreed with the suggestion and then graciously turned down a rather persistent invitation to stay for a drink. She just wanted to be back in her own cottage, even if it would feel emptier than she wanted to admit. She bid her farewells and then Flooed home.

The lamps were still on from when she had left in a hurry. She slumped down onto her sofa and leaned forward, once more holding the paperback book in her hand. She opened the well-loved book to the page she wanted, reading the familiar words before her.

“I do not think they are evil. They may be good. They may even be divine. But whether they are or not, let’s handle them carefully.”

The Floo whooshed once more. Hermione did not look up and told Theo she really was too tired for a drink.

“It’s not Theo.”

Hermione’s head shot up towards the now quite familiar voice. “I thought you were asleep at Nott Manor?”

He stepped into the dim sitting room, eyes still glassy but wholly trained on Hermione. His pupils were blown wide, and he was breathing heavily, the shadowed outline of shoulders rising up and down slowly. “I woke up. You were gone.”

She stood, dropping the book on the coffee table. She felt her ears ring ever so slightly and her stomach twist and turn. She was afraid but it was… different.

“Theo suggested you stay there. I was tired and needed to feed Crookshanks.”

Malfoy’s eyes were now more awake, and his cheeks were flushed. He didn’t have his suit jacket on, and the arms of his white shirt were rolled to his elbows. Hermione saw the Dark Mark, remembering him holding it out to her, daring her to acknowledge the ugly scar. Against the pale smooth skin of his exposed forearm in the dim glow of the lamplight, she couldn’t look away now.

The black eyes of the skull seemed to suck her in but still, her feet felt planted to the weathered boards of her home. As she stared, he stepped closed until she could feel his warm breath stir the hairs at the crown of her head. Now that he was so close, her hand reached out of its accord and she trailed one finger from skull to the open mouth of the snake that lay there, ready to bite. She noticed the fine hairs of his arm rise at the contact and heard him suck in. She looked up and caught his eyes, silver and so bright.

“But whether they are or not, let’s handle them carefully.”

She took a quick step back. “I’m sorry, I shouldn’t ha—”

Large hands engulfed her face, holding her cheeks so carefully and pulling her forward. Firm lips pressed into hers.

She was being kissed.

Draco Malfoy was kissing her.

Oh.

Oh.

Notes:

Surprise chapter for the 15th of June! Aren’t we all so happy that Hermione decided to save him?

Thank you so much for all the love and support! The attention has truly been wild and I am appreciative to all of you!

The biggest and greatest shoutout to by betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for being my voices of reason and biggest fans!

This was written late into the night on my broken iPhone, until my husband kindly suggested that 2am was actually meant for sleeping. Proceed with caution.

Quotes are from Matilda by Roald Dahl

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 15

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Malfoy was kissing her.

Hermione felt him cradling her face in his hands gently, as if afraid she would crumble under his touch. She felt the subtle give of soft flesh as he pressed harder into her lips. His body was flush against her, and she could sense that he had gained weight in the past few weeks since she had last felt his body’s contours push into hers. She barely reacted, too shocked to fully comprehend what was happening.

He was kissing her.

Suddenly she felt the touch of his tongue, tracing the seam of her lips, asking for entrance. Before she knew it, she was parting her mouth open ever so slightly. It was all the invitation he needed. He mapped out her teeth with the wet tip, causing Hermione to shiver until his tongue filled her mouth fully, seeking refuge in her warmth. A low moan shuddered across her taste buds tasting like firewhiskey as a hand slid to her neck, holding it firmly. He nipped her lower lip with his teeth, drawing it out slowly. The sting caused her to gasp. He broke the kiss, a string of saliva connecting them for a second longer before bursting against her chin.

She took him in.

His eyes were wide and the staining of pink on his cheeks had slightly flushed down his neck. The look of awe that Hermione had seen as he brushed his fingers against her curls at the Ministry had returned, his mouth hanging slightly open in wonder. Large hands still held her face and neck, the warmth seeping into her skin.

He looked like a man discovering the divine.

As she looked on, his face transformed. Swollen lips turned down in the corners, changing to a frown. His eyebrows, which had been raised high, slowly sunk until they shadowed over his steadily dimming eyes. His bottom lip quivered, ever so slightly. Suddenly she felt herself being released. As he let her go, he stared down at his open palms. A look of almost revulsion passed over his face, like he couldn’t believe what his hands had done. He curled his long fingers into fists, squeezing them so tightly they trembled.

Like a man who had discovered divinity and knew he wouldn’t be worthy.

“Malfoy?” Suddenly released from whatever had left her immobilised, Hermione began to reach out for him again, feeling whatever had just passed between them slipping away.

He swiftly took a large step back, looking up at her. An expression of horror and shock painted on his face. “Sorry. I don’t— I’m sorry.”

Before Hermione could say anything, he had turned his back and practically ran to his room, shutting the door firmly behind him. Hermione stood in the sitting room, her heart still pounding.

What the hell had just happened?

After standing in silence for a while, she clicked off the lamp and went to bed.

~~

The next morning, Hermione was scared to leave her bedroom. She wasn’t sure where they stood. If anything, the situation had only increased in layers of complexity and at its centre was her own vacillation between trusting him or not.

Hannah’s words ran through her mind. Was she keeping a safe distance from a potential threat or was she distancing herself in fear of something else?

These were the thoughts that accompanied her when she finally made the decision to venture out of her room. The cottage was quiet in the early morning. Light filtered in through the windows, catching on particles in the air. Hermione loved the mornings. Loved the way the light lit all the dark corners of her home and her mind. She made her way to the kitchen, set the kettle to boil and began cracking eggs in a pan. As she moved, she tried to decide how to navigate the current terrain and she realised she had no idea which was unimaginably frustrating.

People had never exactly been Hermione’s forte. She could interact and have friendships but had quickly realised that many of the people she knew were fairly simple. They wore their hearts on their sleeves. Something she recognised as a fairly Gryffindor trait to match her predominantly Gryffindor friends. How did one handle a snake?

She was plating the meal when Malfoy entered the kitchen, grey trackies and cotton t-shirt. He stopped dead at the sight of her. “I thought you could make the toast if that’s alright. I already made the tea.”

He continued to stand still but as she began cutting fruit, he quietly put slices of bread into the toaster. They did not speak past this until they were both seated at the table.

“I didn’t expect you to be here.” His comment was quiet.

Hermione caught his gaze and looked directly into the grey. “Where else would I be?”

She tried to convey through her eyes that she wasn’t running this time. Hermione hadn’t been able to decide much past that, but it was a start.

They didn’t discuss the standstill, the drinking, or the kiss. Hermione knew their tentative peace couldn’t handle it.

It would come though, she promised herself. Just not at this exact moment.

They ate their eggs and toast in silence.

~~

A few days went by, and their newfound rhythm had continued. They spoke amicably, ate meals together, and read in the sitting room in the evenings all in relative calm.

However, a shift had occurred within Hermione. As much as she tried to forget the drunken kiss, she simply couldn’t. She had rationalised with herself that if he had been drunk enough to instigate a fight with a friend, kissing her was hardly meaningful. He had been locked away and they had been forced to become intimate quickly, both physically and emotionally.

She swore his eyes followed her like a magnet around the room. Rarely did she catch him staring, but she could sense a presence that almost felt like a warm breath against her neck during simple moments such as twisting her hair up or when she cooked. During these moments, the build-up was almost unbearable, as if the atmosphere's pressure was climbing to a peak until it felt like it would shatter, Hermione splintering along with it.

He had been back to Theo’s house once since the night of the kiss, returning early in the evening sober. Looking worn, he stepped out of the Floo catching Hermione’s attention away from some paperwork. He sat at the table next to her, looking slightly forlorn.

“How was Theo?”

He sighed, not looking up from the grain of the table. “Fine. Blaise and Pansy were also there.”

Hermione bit her lip, understanding the sad expression. “Were they really angry with you?”

“No. They weren’t angry at all. In fact, Blaise apologised for hitting me.”

“You were pretty beaten up.”

He began scratching at the table with his nail. “I know I started it. The night was fairly blurry, but I do remember saying things that I deserved to be punched for. I guess I should just be happy he used his fist instead of his wand. Little harder to heal a Bombarda wound. The soft bugger said he didn’t think a wand would have been fair since I don’t have one.” He continued to pick at the wood.

“Why are you so angry?” The quill in her hand was carefully set next to her now abandoned work.

“Because I deserved to be hit. I deserved that punishment and he’s the one that apologised.” Scratchscratchscratch.

“He hit you. He probably just feels guilty for it.”

“It doesn’t matter. They did so much for me. Wrote to me while I was on house arrest, visited me when I was allowed to have guests once a month, hell Pansy tried to visit me in Azkaban twice. And Theo,” he swallowed hard, “he didn’t give up looking for a way for me to be released. Not once. They never gave up on me and I came out and that’s how I thanked them.”

“Why did you do it? Start the fight with Blaise.” Hermione was carefully looking away from him, pretending to straighten out her work. She wasn’t sure he would even respond.

“I don’t know.” Scratchscratchscratch.

“Interesting. I didn’t think I would ever hear you admit you didn’t know something.”

He gave a humourless laugh. “I don’t know a lot of things. The longer I live the more I realise I don’t have a fucking clue about a thing.”

“That’s not true. You were very smart in school. You placed closely after me.”

“I was book smart, but I didn’t know anything about the world other than the small slice I was allowed. And I was stupid enough to never even wonder. I accepted who I was supposed to be and what I was supposed to do, and I was content with it. Look where that’s gotten me.” He finally looked up at her.

“Do you know when I first got the Mark I was so proud? I was young, but I was going to prove that the Malfoys were loyal. I was finally going to prove to my father that I was strong. I had never been best at anything, but I could do this. And then… I couldn’t. And I was so ashamed.” He laughed again, his eyes growing hollow. “I was stupid.”

“You weren’t stupid. You were a child.”

“You were a child too, Granger. You were a child, and you risked your life. I… gave in to everything I did because I didn’t want to admit I was wrong. That my family was wrong. And my friends watched me sink into that pit, kept trying to pull me out of it until it was too late. They are still trying to pull me out of it.”

“The people in your life led you astray, especially the adults who were responsible for you. You put too much blame on yourself.”

“And you don’t put enough blame on me.” The words crashed into her, catching her off guard. “You searched for a way to free me; you married me. Merlin you even…” he paused, swallowing, “you gave more than any person would have and we meant nothing to each other. I’ve never had anyone do something like that. What have I ever done to deserve it?”

Hermione didn’t know how to respond.

How did she explain that it had morphed from a simple plan to save his life to… this? How did she tell him that he had meant something to her before, even if she told herself, it was just a curiosity? How did she explain how she felt like she couldn’t breathe when he was in the room? What words could make him see that she hadn’t expected him to be real, a person who had been hurt and was dealing with that pain, and had maybe even grown from it? How did she make him understand her inexplicable need to cradle all the broken pieces he laid before her?

“I don’t know.” She echoed his previous admission.

“What a fine pair we make.” He held her stare, his nostrils flaring. Hermione felt the air around them thicken, that strange pressure building and making her feel lightheaded.

She had hoped that the night of their kiss would be blurry in his memory. The ease with which he was able to carry on felt like a good indicator that he hadn’t remembered the kiss, but there were moments where she wondered. Moments where he would catch her gaze and linger on her mouth. Sometimes the tip of his pink tongue would skim over his lower lip, just for a second, before he would turn his attention elsewhere.

It completely did Hermione’s head in.

She coughed, focusing on parchment under her hands.

“What are you working on?” He peered over to where she was beginning to scratch an ink-soaked quill against the paperwork.

“Oh… um it’s paperwork for a Lycanthropy Wing at St. Mungos.”

“I thought you primarily worked with house-elves and centaurs?”

Again, it took her by surprise that he knew details about her life. “I do. I’m not sure if you remember Hannah Abbott, but she wants to open a special wing for those afflicted with lycanthropy so they can receive fair treatment. They are a grossly underserved population, often afraid to reach out for care due to prejudice. If they do reach out for help, they face being denied basic care as people are afraid that their condition will spread within the hospital. It’s ridiculous, because it’s only an issue at the full moon and Wolfsbane renders them docile even during the full moon. Greyback created and trained so many of the werewolves during the war and people are concerned that those he turned will share his characteristics and predilection for violence. The best solution at this point is to create a new wing to house them while they receive care.”

“Do you think the powers that be will allow it?”

“They haven’t so far,” Hermione sighed. “The funds required are ready, but they are delaying it with everything they have.”

“One of your friends was attacked by Greyback, a Weasley. Did he start your interest in werewolves?”

“Oh, Bill? No, he thankfully has never turned. He wasn’t bitten during the full moon, so he isn’t a full werewolf. My interest came from Professor Lupin. Well, his son.”

Malfoy raised an eyebrow. “He had a son?”

It was Hermione’s turn to look confused. “Yes, with Nymphadora Tonks. His name is Teddy. Your cousin?” She had considered that perhaps he didn’t know about the cousin that was still alive, a little boy with the kind eyes of his father and the mischief of his mother.

“Oh. Andromeda’s daughter. I knew she had had a son but never realised it was Lupin’s.”

“Have you seen your aunt since the war?”

“Seeing as I’ve never met her, no.”

Hermione couldn’t believe what she was hearing. “She’s your family!”

“We never talked about her. She was disinherited and burned off the Black tapestry along with Potter’s godfather, long before I was born.”

“She was your mother’s sister!”

“Yes, well, in my family, take the wrong step and it doesn’t matter if you were a sister, a brother, a child, you’re cut out.”

Hermione felt her stomach sink at the idea of family he had grown up with. Love was conditional, as easily taken away as given. She couldn’t imagine living with the knowledge her parents could one day stop loving her.

The thought of her parents caused a pang to hit her stomach with such force she flinched, causing her inked quill to splatter on the table.

She ignored the intrusive thought. “Anyways he faced ridicule his entire life because of it. Even after he died for the Wizarding World, they still ostracise Teddy, your cousin, for having a father with lycanthropy. He has been denied from different private paediatric healers and his attendance at Hogwarts has been questioned.”

“That doesn’t make sense. He wasn’t bitten. There’s no way he could have it.”

“Exactly. Still people refuse to look past their own preconceived notions and act accordingly. I found out about it from Andromeda at his second birthday party. When Hannah approached me about opening a wing that would provide care and support, both mentally and physically for those affected, I knew I wanted to be a part of it. I hoped it could shed better light on the disease and those who suffer from it. Sadly, the Ministry wants extraordinarily little to do with it. Every time we put out one fire, they start another. It’s exhausting.”

“How do you do it?” His voice was suddenly closer as he leaned in. “How do you just give all of your time and energy to every cause that pulls at your heartstrings? How do you stay whole when you’re constantly surrendering bits of yourself for other people?”

His eyes were so deep, boring right into her as if he could see her thoughts if he looked hard enough. She pressed her knees together, hoping the pressure would calm her down.

I don’t.

“I want to make a change in the world. These causes deserve the attention of everyone. It isn’t always easy but it’s worth it.” It was a true enough statement.

“The only cause I’ve ever been a part of took everything from me. I’m not sure how much more I have to give,” he murmured.

It had been such a common thought for Hermione. After she had stripped away the parts of her that had made her a girl to take on new roles that made her a soldier, she had often thought that there would be nothing left. The causes that she aligned herself with gave her a purpose, something to hold on to after the war had ended and she had found herself in a tailspin, wondering who the hell was Hermione Granger.

“You could always join a cause. Maybe even the Lycanthropy Wing?” She had surprised herself with the idea.

“It really must be a sinking ship if you want Britain’s local pariah to be a part of it.” The derisive comment was accompanied by an eye roll.

“No, really. What else are you doing with your newfound freedom? There’s only so many times you can reread the same books. This is a good cause and you’ve got family already in it.”

“What, an overachieving wife?”

Hermione flushed. “No, you caddy git, your aunt and cousin. You could even meet them!” As the idea sprang forth, she realised how perfect it could be. “Andromeda hasn’t been very vocal about her support in fear of more people discriminating against Teddy, but she’s quite active. I had meant to go visit them soon maybe you could—”

“No.” His curt response cut her off.

“No? But this could be—”

“No, Granger. I never claimed to want to make a change in the world. I can see the wheels turning in that brilliant head of yours. I’m not a child, I don’t need a better role model to lead me down the path of light or a just crusade to keep me from my wickedness.”

Hermione felt so frustrated. He had been loafing around the cottage for weeks now. He had been free from one prison and was now building his own bars for another. “I thought the goal was to restore the Malfoy name.”

“That’s my mother’s goal. I’m not nearly so naive. Our family name will remain tarnished.”

“It’s my name now too.”

He sputtered on the sip of tea he had just taken, and she went on. “I’d rather not have a tarnished name if possible. I already have my share of obstacles, what with the dirty blood and all.” She spoke casually. “You wouldn’t have to help publicly if you didn’t want to, but it wouldn’t hurt to show you aren’t the same man that you once were. Just a thought. You could meet them, Andromeda, and Teddy, and just see. No need to make any decisions now.”

She stood, gathering her work to be Owled out. He said nothing as she carefully folded the parchment and tapped the window to call Bathilda. When the owl appeared, she fed her a small treat from the bowl and handed her the envelopes, instructing the winged creature to deliver them to the Ministry. She sat down once she was finished, picking up her mug and holding it between her hands.

“Fucking fine, I’ll meet them but that’s it. I’m not going to start wearing some ridiculous pin with a ludicrous acronym on it that sounds like a bodily function.” He spat the words out and stood up from the table, stalking away.

Hermione blinked at the empty space he had left.

He had remembered S.P.E.W.

~~

“I don’t think I feel very good. My stomach still isn’t quite right.”

“I just watched you devour three sandwiches.”

“Exactly, I probably overdid it. How sad, we will simply have to reschedule this family reunion.”

“Malfoy, stop. Andromeda is waiting for us. We can’t cancel at the last minute. I thought your Pureblood sensibilities wouldn’t allow it.”

“My Pureblood sensibilities would be telling me not to fraternise with a blood traitor so maybe we don’t focus on those.”

Much to Malfoy’s chagrin, Hermione had reached out to Andromeda after their discussion. Now two days later they were moments from Flooing to meet her and Teddy. Hermione had been able to identify the blonde wizard’s nerves through his near constant knee bouncing and scratching at surfaces. She could swear there would be a hole carved into her table before the meeting ever occurred.

“We are going now. You are going to meet your aunt and cousin and you’re going to be pleasant.” She checked her watch. They needed to leave.

“You can’t just bark orders, I’m not one of your Gryffindor lackeys.”

“You’re right. You are my husband. I’m leaving now. Either join me or don’t, it’s up to you.” She stepped into the Floo and turned to face him. He was scowling but begrudgingly stepped in beside her. The proximity of their arms allowed Hermione to feel his subtle shaking. She grabbed his hand in hers, squeezing it gently and then letting it fall. For a moment he reached out towards her again, but let the limb drop by his side.

She threw the Floo powder down and they were off.

They landed in a poof of ash. Hermione was quick to Scourgify them both as Malfoy stepped his long legs out into the Tonks family home. He stood tall, straightening the lapels of his suit. His chin was tilted up as he surveyed his surroundings. The air of titled nobility trailed from him, exuding apathy. Not Occluded but reserved.

“Hermione, it’s lovely to see you.”

If Dennis resembled Colin, Andromeda was almost an exact replica of her deceased sister. Long curly dark hair that made Hermione’s heart stop when it accidentally touched her and eyes dark as pitch were so familiar, but then the kind women would smile and suddenly she could see their differences. Where Bellatrix had been maniacal, Andromeda was nurturing. Still, the similarities between the two could be eerie.

“Hello, Andromeda. Thank you for agreeing to meet us. Let me introduce you this is—”

“Young Draco.” The woman appraised the man standing next to Hermione. “I was curious if we would ever meet.”

Malfoy was obviously taken aback by his aunt who resembled another family member. He seemed caught in the dark eyes that scanned him from head to toe.

“You take after your mother.”

The comment seemed to free him from his trance. “My father always told me I resembled him.”

Andromeda laughed. “Luci always was an old vanity. The eyes are his but I’d recognise Cissa’s cheekbones anywhere. I was always rather jealous of them. You might be your father’s heir but there’s no doubt you are your mother’s son.”

Malfoy’s imperious demeanour chipped away slightly, leaving him looking uncomfortable in its stead.

“Where’s Teddy?”

Right as the words left Hermione’s lips a small boy with dark hair zipped in. “They’re here!” He seemed to notice Hermione and changed course, running into her legs.

“Teddy, look how big you’ve gotten!” The five-year-old grinned wide, tiny teeth proudly on display as Hermione knelt down beside him.

“I’m five!” He held up five small digits. Hermione smiled at the child’s excitement.

“Teddy, remember I told you your cousin was visiting?” Andromeda reminded the child softly.

The small boy suddenly took stock of the stranger in the room. He peered up at Malfoy. “What’s that funny mark on your neck?”

Malfoy slapped his hand against the tattoo. “That’s none of your business.”

The boy was undeterred. “Why is your hair so short?”

“Because I cut it. Why are you so tiny?”

“Because I’m five.” He held out his hand once more, displaying his age on each finger. “Are you really my cousin?”

“It would appear so. Do you typically ask this many questions?”

The boy nodded. “Can you fly a broom?”

Malfoy looked almost offended. “Of course I can.”

Teddy perked up at this. “I have a toy broom. I can’t go very high yet.”

Malfoy scoffed at the small boy. “When I was your age, I was already flying my father’s Cleansweep.” He lifted a brow.

“Wow, you must be really good!” Teddy was looking at him with open admiration. “Want to watch me fly?”

“I don’t think I’ll find watching a toddler fly a toy broom interesting but perhaps for a minute. Just to make sure your form is passable.” He seemed to remember himself for a moment. “If it’s alright with your grandmother of course.”

Teddy gave him a sweet smile. “She’s your aunt too, right?”

The blonde wizard didn’t seem to know what to say. Instead, he turned to Andromeda, asking the unspoken question.

“Stay in the field out back. No going too fast. He broke his arm last year. We’ll be out in a moment to join you both.”

Teddy squealed, grabbing Malfoy by the hand and practically pulling him out the door. As they went Hermione could hear child-like chattering and familiar snorts of disdain.

“That little boy reminds me so much of Nymphadora. She could befriend a Boggart with a smile.” The older witch smiled and offered Hermione a chair.

“Thanks again for letting us come over. I’m sorry to have just contacted you out of the blue.”

“You know, I was wondering when you would.”

“You were?”

Andromeda sat primly; ankles crossed. “The moment I read what happened in the Prophet I expected a visit.”

“Why?” Hermione questioned.

“I knew that young man would be quite lost after he was released. I didn’t see my sister being particularly welcoming due to the circumstances.” She smiled at Hermione. “I also knew you wouldn’t know what to do with him.”

Hermione flushed. “It’s been a learning experience.”

Andromeda’s smiles faded slowly. “I’d always wondered about him, worried about him really. I knew Cissa would love him, in her own way at least, and Lucius loved them both. He sadly misplaced that love during the war. He was a cowardly man. A trait I was worried he passed to his son.”

“Are you still worried he’s a coward?”

The brunette thought for a moment. “I know how families like the Blacks and the Malfoys raise their children. I know the ideologies they ingrain and the standards they adhere to. It may have taken him some time. but Draco is rebelling against a lot of what he was raised with. I should know, I also married a Muggleborn.”

“It was that or death. Hardly a choice for him.”

Andromeda smiled sadly. “Make no mistake, there are plenty who would have readily chosen death.”

Hermione felt the burn of rejection at the idea that there were people who would rather have their soul consumed than tie themselves to someone with her heritage. It fanned a flame inside of her that grew a little more with every snide comment, every jeer, every slight.

“Just be gentle with him, Hermione. He’s feeling an array of conflicting emotions right now. I went through the same thing but at least I had Ted to rely on.”

“There are some people who don’t think he deserves anyone being gentle or considerate to him.” Hermione remembered all the words of concern she had received. They had all been valid.

“Those people didn’t have Voldemort living in their home, torturing them and their parents. Maybe I’d have felt differently right after the war but selfishly I’d like more family for Teddy now. He doesn’t remember anything about the fighting, and I’d like to keep it that way.” Andromeda stood. “I think it’s high time we check on those two.”

As they walked, Hermione informed her that the Lycanthropy Wing had been delayed again.

“I’m not surprised. They have made their intentions clear.”

“I’m not giving up, Andromeda. I want Malfoy to help, actually. He’s… hesitant but I’m hoping he’ll change his mind.”

They stepped through the back door and headed towards the field where the newfound cousins were. Teddy was floating in the air on a tiny broom, hovering only five feet above the thick grass. Malfoy was standing in the centre of the field, yelling directions and pointers at him.

“You need to make sure you grip the broom with both hands, imagine you’re flying much faster. Good! So the goal is to pretend to see the Snitch and dive. Once the other Seeker is on your tail you dive down until the absolute last second. Then you pull up, causing the other Seeker to crash. That’s why you need a firm grip, you need strength to pull up and not crash yourself.” Malfoy was animatedly describing the dangerous move and Teddy was fully focused on following every direction. Hermione felt herself get a little breathless at the sight as she approached them.

“Look, Hermione! I’m practising the Wonky Feint!”

“Wronski Teddy, we talked about this,” Malfoy corrected, pinching his nose.

“Yeah, that thing!” Teddy flew to where his grandmother was standing, flying slow circles around her and giggling. Malfoy made his way over to where Hermione stood with a smug look on her face.

“Don’t say it, Granger.”

“I'm sure I don’t know what you mean. I was just going to point out that you don’t seem to be having the worst time.”

He scowled. “Only because that blasted toy broom isn’t strong enough for me to make my escape. Otherwise, I would have abandoned him in this very field.”

She laughed. “Right of course, I was mistaken.”

“Draco, look!” Teddy was now hanging upside down as Andromeda was attempting to remove him from the broom, staying just out of reach.

Malfoy chuckled but quickly covered it with a cough. “You’ll need to practise if you want a chance to play at Hogwarts.”

The young boy finally landed next to his cousin. “Yeah, I have to practise! I go when I’m this many!” The young boy held out eight fingers.

“Well, close enough,” Malfoy muttered under his breath.

The sun was in its early descent, the light around them starting to quietly fade. Hermione and Malfoy bid their farewells and Andromeda promised to stay in touch. Before they were about to Floo away, Teddy ran up and hugged Malfoy around his legs. When he made contact his hair began to lighten at the tips. Deep brown melted away into a shock of white. Malfoy glanced at Hermione who shrugged. The older cousin patted his head uncomfortably and then made his escape in the fireplace.

Once they were back in their sitting room, they had gone their separate ways without further discussion on the day. Hermione changed out of her sundress, slipping into her comfortable pyjamas. She was petting Crookshanks on the sofa when Malfoy entered the room. He was quiet as he sat in an armchair, looking contemplative.

“Teddy won’t be allowed to attend Hogwarts when he’s eleven, will he?”

Hermione continued to pet the furry cat. “Nobody can say for sure. Certain members of the community are worried about his admittance mostly due to false perceptions about lycanthropy. The only proven method is through a bite, but fear mongering can be highly effective when children are involved.”

“That’s fucking stupid.”

She nodded. “Yes, it is.”

“They can’t just keep him from going because they're afraid of what they don’t understand.”

She hummed in agreement.

“It’s not fair or right.”

She bit her lip to keep the corners of her mouth from curling upwards.

“You’re going to be insufferable about this aren’t you?”

“I have no idea what you’re talking about.” She stood, telling him goodnight.

As she laid in bed she stared at the Draco constellation, tracing the space between each star with her eyes. For a moment she swore she saw a small glint of light shoot across the expanse, like a tiny boy with white blonde hair on a toy broom.

Notes:

Woooahhh half way there! It’s gone by SO fast!

Thank you for all the TikTok and ao3 comments, I’m so grateful for the support!

Biggest thanks to my beta babes, rompeprop and noxhunter. I’d be lost without you two!

This was written on my cracked iPhone while I was in the waiting room at the dentist. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 16

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
The envelope sat on the kitchen table looking innocuous.

It was the same simple parchment that Hermione had received hundreds of times in her life. The ink was the same standard black that was used for essays, Ministry correspondence, and daily life.

Hermione did not want to open the letter.

She had known this moment would come. Try as she might to bury it in the back of her thoughts, she had known that the small respite would only last so long.

“Why are you staring at that letter like it’s about to blow up?”

Because it might.

“It’s an invitation.”

“Are you winning another award? Tell me, do they often give out Order of Merlin’s for saving war criminals?”

“It’s from Mrs. Weasley.”

Malfoy’s face contorted into distaste. “So sorry about that, Granger, I’m going to grab my apple and be on my way now.”

“It’s addressed to both of us.”

He blanched. “No, I don’t think so.”

“They’ve invited us over with the family.”

“Oh. that’s lovely. I’ve already found one set of long-lost relatives; I think I’m alright for now.”

Hermione’s relationship with the Weasleys was complicated. They had welcomed her into their fold with open arms and for that, she would be eternally grateful. When she needed a motherly presence, Mrs. Weasley was usually there with a cup of tea and an embrace that felt so safe and warm.

At the same time, they still reminded her she was… different. Mr. Weasley often wanted Hermione to explain Muggle contraptions, commenting on the “ingenuity that comes from disadvantage.” Hermione didn’t disagree, Magic was spectacular, but the look of awe on his face always made her uncomfortable. She didn’t want to be his Rosetta Stone for the Muggle world. She wanted to be someone’s family, not their resource.

While Mrs. Weasley had all the affection of a mother, she also had the guilt-inducing disappointment down pat as well. Anytime Hermione had ever taken an interest in a man that wasn’t her son she had let it be known. There had been endless awkward family dinners where she and Ron always sat next to each other, comments about his Auror achievements and wishful stares at Hermione when baby Victoire was in the room. There had been a wizard or two that Hermione had broken up with just to escape the nonsense. She so desperately wanted to set boundaries with the older witch but found herself never able to. Hermione had a limited amount of family as is, she wasn’t willing to lose any more.

Not again.

She knew this had been coming even though she wished it hadn’t.

“ Please go to the dinner.”

“I’d rather be back in Azkaban.”

“I went to that awful dinner with your mother.” His harsh words that had followed still stung.

“Against my better advice might I remind you.”

“Please, Malfoy.” She hated that she was begging but the idea of attending alone felt too much.

“No, thanks.”

“Draco, please.”

He stood, studying her with a frustration that didn’t fully make sense. Like an inner war that played out in his eyes. “Why does this mean so much to you?”

“They’re important to me.”

He stared at her, his jaw twitching. “When?”

“They want us to come over tonight, if possible. Everyone else has already agreed.”

“The Weasel?”

Hermione frowned. “I doubt Ron will be there.”

He seemed to contemplate the slight positive.

“No. I don’t think so, Granger.”

He said nothing else, leaving the room while biting into the crisp skin of the apple, a trail of sweetness following him.

Hermione stared after him, shocked. She had been so sure that a yes had been on the tip of his tongue, that he would notice the desperation in her eyes and her voice and choose to support her, the way she had supported him continuously. There had been a sense of a growing connection, a bond of some sort. Only apparently, she was the only one to have felt it.

The humiliation burned in her gut, eating at her innards.

She had overestimated her hand and lost.

~~

The Burrow was as chaotic and cramped as ever when Hermione Flooed over. Hovering kitchen utensils clinked loudly as Mrs. Weasley’s large supper finished cooking through the aid of magic.

The woman herself was busy at the large cast iron stove, adding spices to a large bubbling pot. George was animatedly recounting a funny customer interaction from that day at the joke shop to Mr. Weasley who smiled jovially, hand on belly on a chair.

Ginny and Harry sat on the sofa, cracking smiles as George gesticulated wildly. They all paused and turned to the audible entrance of the guest of honour. Hermione entered the stuffed room, feeling her temperature raise with every footstep.

“Oh Hermione!” Ginny stood quickly and walked to give her a hug. The redhead sent her still seated husband a side-glance, causing Harry to quickly rise and greet Hermione.

“Where’s Malfoy?” Harry peered around her, as if she was concealing the tall wizard behind her back.

Hermione recalled the empty sitting room before she had left. “Sadly, he had already accepted an invitation to visit his mother.”

She felt her cheeks burn at the lie, hoping no one else recognized it. Harry and Ginny gave her questioning looks in unison but neither voiced their curiosity. A scoff came from the kitchen as Mrs. Weasley dropped a ladle into the pot she had been tending. She didn’t turn, just kept fussing over other dishes.

Mr. Weasley stood, clearing his throat before smoothing out the rising intensity in the room.

“Hermione, dear, thank you for coming! I know our invitation was rather last minute.” He stared at her and then seemed to remember himself. “I guess congratulations are in order!”

He awkwardly put his arms around her and gave a slight pat. Hermione heard a snort and turned to George. His boisterous grin had disappeared, replaced with a glare. He stalked out of the room, leaving Hermione gaping at the door he had disappeared through. Mr. Weasley glanced at her and excused himself, calling for George as he went.

“Sorry, George is taking… everything a little hard. You know, not a lot of time has passed since the five-year anniversary of the final Battle and Fred…” Ginny trailed off, looking at the door frame her elder brother and father had escaped through. “Well, he is just taking the marriage a little harder.” She smiled weakly at Hermione, reaching out a warm hand to pat her arm.

Hermione wanted to sink into a hole. She sat down in the sitting room, Ginny and Harry resuming their positions on the sofa. A tense silence hung thickly in the air, choking Hermione of any polite conversation. Mrs. Weasley continued to loudly bang away in the kitchen as Ginny smiled uncomfortably and Harry nervously flicked his eyes from his mother-in-law and Hermione.

Mr. Weasley returned, looking slightly strained. “George won’t be joining us for dinner. He isn’t feeling quite well.”

A loud clatter sounded in the kitchen. “Well perfect, two fewer plates to set.”

Hermione stared at the floor as Mr. Weasley quickly attended to his agitated wife, wishing she had also turned down the invitation. Poorly hushed voices allowed Hermione to hear snippets of the argument.

“Darling, please calm…”

“…can’t believe… she would do such… Ron…”

“She’s an adult witch… we can’t…”

Hermione began furiously rubbing the skin of her thumb, picking at the quickly reddening flesh with her nails.

“My poor Georgie… hurting my sons… after accepting…”

“Molly, please…”

“…didn’t even show up! Too proud for a Death…”

Hermione stood, an excuse for a poor stomach halfway out of her mouth when the Floo flashed. The room became silent, much like it had for her arrival.

In the centre of the fireplace stood Malfoy, dressed in a crisp suit.

Nobody moved.

Straightening his collar which covered the ugly tattoo that rested there, he stepped out. As he surveyed the room his face remained carefully neutral. “Apologies for my late arrival.”

Mr. Weasley, who’s mouth had been hanging open slightly, shuffled to the blonde wizard. “Hello, Draco. Welcome to our home.” Malfoy furrowed his brow at the word home, but it disappeared just as quickly. “I apologise for our surprise; Hermione told us you had a previous engagement with your mother.” Mr. Weasley held his hand out. Malfoy blinked at the limb for a moment, leaving Hermione terrified he was going to refuse.

After a moment longer, he politely shook the older wizard’s hand. “Mother was quite under the weather and unable to host. She sends her kind regards.”

It would be a cold day in hell before Narcissa Malfoy gave her regards to any of them, but it was said with so much sincerity that Hermione almost believed it herself.

Mrs. Weasley was staring at the intruder with open displeasure and Mr. Weasley shot her a nervous glance. “How unfortunate for her but we are glad to have you nonetheless.” He led Malfoy away from his irate wife and towards the sitting room by an uncomfortable shoulder touch.

Malfoy took in his surroundings but said nothing. Finally, when he was near, he glanced at Hermione, who was in shock.

He was here. He had shown up. He hadn’t left her to fend off the wolves alone.

“Granger.”

The single word left his lips, causing her heart rate to quicken. She said nothing as she stared up at him from the wooden chair she sat in, taking in his obviously thought-out attire and grey eyes

He was here.

“Nice haircut, Malfoy. Very rugged.” Ginny’s sly voice broke Hermione from her thoughts. “I think we have an extra hair growth potion around here somewhere from Bill and Fleur’s wedding. It's old but I don’t think they will go off.”

“They do. Nice try though, I also took Slughorn’s class where we learned about the effects of expired hair growth potion.” His response was smooth and cool.

Ginny smirked. “Can’t blame me for trying. Seeing you with hair covering your entire body for forty-eight hours would be too good to pass up. I know I was in support of letting bygones be bygones, but old habits die hard.”

Malfoy sneered but Hermione recognized the slight crinkle of his nose that suggested he found the comment funnier than he was willing to show. He turned to Harry.

“Potter.” Hermione cringed, the name sounding faintly like an insult in and of itself.

Harry was inspecting him intently, face grim. “Malfoy.”

It was an awkward standoff, both staring and judging but neither willing to say anything. It stayed tense as they sat at the large kitchen table, even as they dished out roasted chicken, potatoes and Scotch rolls.

As they began to eat, Hermione noticed Malfoy’s hesitancy to take a bite of the food that was very different from what he had been raised with. She lightly elbowed him. He covered his slight grunt with a cough before slowly bringing a cut piece of chicken to his mouth. The movement was dainty but the bite after was taken with more gusto as he realised how skilled Mrs. Weasley was in the kitchen. Hermione almost laughed but Mr. Weasley cut her off.

“I gave my congratulations to Hermione before you arrived, but I suppose I should extend them to you as well.”

Malfoy coughed for real this time, choking on a piece of potato. “Oh. Thank you.”

The older wizard nodded. “It was rather a surprise.”

“You could say that again.” Hermione stabbed a potato at the first words Mrs. Weasley spoke in her presence.

“Yes, it was a rather quick coupling. Unfortunately, not much time to inform people.” Malfoy continued to neatly cut his food.

“Tell me, Draco, how does it feel living in a home so catered to Muggles?”

“Quite convenient seeing as I don't have access to a wand for a year,” Malfoy replied without choking this time.

“Right, of course. It must be so fascinating. What an immersive experience. Truly getting to live amongst Muggles.”

Hermione gripped her fork harder. Ginny was staring down at her plate while Harry continuously chewed his bite of chicken.

“There is plenty of magic of course. She is a witch after all.” Malfoy said slowly as if it was obvious. He glanced at Hermione, but she continued to focus on her food.

“Of course, of course. I must say I was quite surprised you were released. I didn’t agree with how they were handling trials, but nobody would listen to a word from me,” Mr. Weasley continued.

“Thankfully Granger was very persistent and rather brilliant.” The compliment stopped her fork midway to her mouth.

The older man blinked but then gave an easy smile. “Yes, quite brilliant and for someone who entered the magical world so late!”

Ah. There it was.

Hermione felt the tight smile on her face before resuming her eating.

“She’s always been smart. It's just how that big brain of hers works.” Harry peeked at Hermione while making his comment.

“That she has, of course. We are so fortunate to have her. I’ve never had someone to talk so extensively about Muggle artefacts with.”

Mrs. Weasley let out a humourless snort, her fork clattering down to her plate.

“I’m sorry, Mrs. Weasley, I didn’t mean to dominate so much of the conversation. Is there something you would like to say?” Malfoy was looking calmly at the matriarch, fork and knife still in hand.

Mrs. Weasley looked startled for a moment, obviously not expecting to be publicly called out. It lasted only a moment before her lips pursed and her shoulders set with the confidence that only comes from talking down to someone. “She’s a smart girl. I wish she made smarter decisions.” She stared at the younger wizard dead in the eyes.

Hermione felt her stomach drop and the anger inside her rise. She wanted to hold on to it but it slowly bled into fear. She picked at her thumb hard, feeling the dry skin peel back.

Nobody said anything to defend her. She hadn’t expected them to.

“I think she makes good decisions. Helped stop a war after all. Help put an end to it, when others much older than herself couldn’t.” Malfoy’s voice was controlled but she noticed the way his jaw twitched.

“She stopped the war only to take a piece of it to bed with her. I always thought she was a good girl with a good head on her shoulders but now I must admit that I’ll be eating crow. A good girl wouldn’t throw away the perfect wizard for her and choose someone who was born into- to evil.”

Hermione half expected Malfoy to throw his chair back and start swinging, but he didn’t. He held the witch’s stare. “Is this so-called perfect wizard your son? The same man who had no problems pushing her down to the floor to get at me?” His voice was frosty, each word spoken carefully. “I’m assuming you don’t believe he was born into evilness, so what is his excuse? Poor parenting?”

Everything was still for a moment.

Mrs. Weasley stood, chair screeching behind her, eyes full of anger. Her cheeks were red, either from shame or anger, Hermione didn’t know. “How dare you?! One of my sons is dead because of your kind! Bill is scarred from the night you let those monsters into the school! My children will never meet their uncles because of the choices you and yours made!”

Mr. Weasley quickly stood and tried to lay a calming hand on his wife’s shoulder. “Now, Molly, Draco was a child…”

She shrugged him off. “They were all children, Arthur! And they all fought against Voldemort!” Malfoy flinched at the name. “They didn’t sign their souls away to some Dark Lord! You,” she pointed a hard finger at Malfoy, “should have stayed where you belonged and you,” she now swung her attention to Hermione, “should have left him there. After everything this family has done for you, after accepting you into our home, our world!”

Hermione felt her eyes burn, heard the loud whooshing in her ears, stuck in the disgusted woman’s attention.

“Mum!” Ginny was standing, hands flat on the table as she eyed her mother. Harry was grasping her hand and glancing at Hermione with concern.

Malfoy continued to stare at the woman, face completely blank. Not Occluded, but fully controlled. He set his cutlery down. “No. You don’t get to do that. Say what you will about me, believe me, it isn’t the first time and won’t be the last. But don’t you dare talk to her like that. She has freely given so much to everyone around her and asks for nothing in return.”

He finally rose from his seat and wiped his mouth with the folded cloth napkin from his lap, throwing it down delicately to the side of his plate. “I think this dinner is over. Granger?” He looked to where she sat, leaving the decision up to her. Hermione peered at the people at the table, Mrs. Weasley seething, Mr. Weasley looking around uncomfortably, Ginny glaring at her mother, Harry appearing concerned and hesitant.

She stood, dropped her napkin less gracefully to the table and followed Malfoy towards the fireplace.

He paused for a moment once she had stepped in and looked back at the old witch. “You know she told me that you were important to her. From tonight’s meal, I can’t figure out why.” He swirled back around and entered the Floo beside her, throwing down the powder to take them home.

When she was back in the comforts of her home, she broke down. Pressing her hands to her chest as if to stave the bleeding, she tried and failed to swallow her sob. Walking to the sofa, she sank into the material, gasps coming out of her as she shook. She covered her mouth, hoping to trap any sounds in her body, unwilling to let herself shatter. A moment later the Floo sounded. Hermione quickly stood, wiping the tears that had escaped away with the back of her hands and schooling her features into faux calm.

Harry stepped out and green eyes found her.

“I’m so sorry, Hermione. That was… it wasn’t right, what Mrs. Weasley said.” He stepped towards her slowly.

“I’m sorry for causing such a fuss.” She hoped her face wasn’t as visibly raw as she felt.

“You weren’t the one to make a fuss, Granger. You did nothing.” Malfoy’s voice was chilled as he focused on Harry.

Harry shot him a dirty look. “He’s right. Mrs. Weasley was out of line. She’s… she’s just surprised. I mean we all are. She’s worried about Ron.”

“Yes, well maybe she should be worried about what her beloved baby boy does when he’s angry and less worried about his romantic life.”

Harry opened his mouth as if to snap at the blonde before him but changed his mind. “I should have said something. Ginny is back at the Burrow laying into her. She’s going to feel terrible when she stops being so angry, you know she is. Just don’t be too upset, okay? She means well.”

The words were familiar. Everyone meant well. They never meant to hurt her, or other her, or take from her. She could never be angry or hold a grudge because they all meant well.

“Remember she’s just a protective mum. She does it because she loves them.”

And that was Harry’s Achilles Heel. In the end, Mrs. Weasley could do no wrong because she was his mother. Harry had spent so long without a mother; he would never go back to a world where he didn’t have one. Even at Hermione’s expense.

“I know, Harry, you’re right. I won’t hold it against her. I know she didn’t mean to hurt me.” The words tasted like ash in her mouth.

“I give no such forgiveness. Please tell your dear mummy-in-law that while I’m sorry for her brothers, I wasn’t even born when they died, so at least take that off my list of crimes.” Malfoy was standing next to her, glaring at Harry.

Harry ignored him. “I also wanted to come down and warn you both.”

Hermione felt her hair raise. “What do you mean?”

Harry looked at Malfoy deliberating whether or not to speak in his presence. “Codsworth has been asking about you, Hermione. Asking about your family, your friends, your work. You need to be careful. He’s a powerful man with powerful connections. You don’t want to be on his bad side.”

Hermione remembered her parting words to the stout man. “I don’t think there is another side for us other than bad when it comes to Codsworth. He’s angry he was bested, and worse, by a Muggleborn woman.”

Harry looked both resigned and concerned. “Just watch out, yeah? Try to lay low and don’t bring on any unnecessary attention. He has a reputation in the DMLE for being rather manipulative.”

She agreed and felt the ache in her heart mend fractionally. Harry worried about her, cared for her, even if he was unwilling to stand up to his mother for her.

He gave her a half smile and then glanced back to Malfoy who hadn’t stopped glowering. “Well, I better get back, make sure Mrs. Weasley and Ginny haven’t set anything on fire.” He hugged her lightly and then Flooed away.

Hermione watched the dust settle and felt her features droop as her temples began to ache.

She was never opening mail again. Nothing good came from folded parchment and ink. Nothing.

“That was fucked.”

Hermione sat down, massaging her sore forehead as Malfoy stood, hands on hips.

“Looks like we are even.” She couldn’t help the words.

“Why do you allow them to treat you like that? That barmy woman acted like you didn’t save the fucking world! And what was with the Weasel father? You live in the country in a Muggle cottage, not at the zoo! He acted like living with you was some kind of close encounter! Also colour me fucking surprised that the Great Saviour couldn’t even manage to stand up to that hag!”

“Don’t talk about them like that. They– they are important to me, my family. And Harry was orphaned so young, he never had a chance to have a mother. Mrs. Weasley is his mum now and he’s terrified of losing that. You can’t hold that against him.” Hermione felt her words wobble as her eyes began to burn again.

“We all lived through a war, Granger. We all lost people. He doesn’t get a free pass because he lost his sooner than the rest of us.”

“Who did you lose, I can’t seem to remember?” Her snapped retort burned in her mouth. She felt trapped by his truthful words and wanted to lash out.

“I lost myself.” It was so blunt, so truthful that Hermione felt the steam that had been rising dissipate almost instantly. “Why do you keep saying they are your family?”

She dug her fingers into her eyes, trying to relieve the pressure that was building behind them. “I said it because they are.”

“Where are your parents?”

His question should have been easy, but Hermione didn’t know where to begin.

I erased them.

“You’re the one who said we all lost someone. It was true.” She hoped he wouldn’t question it any further. She didn’t have the energy, the strength, the will to delve into any more of her secrets. Having one of her greatest insecurities and fears displayed as if it was an accompanying show to dinner left her cut wide open enough.

“Why do you want to choose that kind of family?” His words were soft but so heavy.

“We don’t get to choose who we have. They welcomed me. At least they did before.”

“They treat you like you haven’t given up everything for them. Like you are somehow different.”

She rubbed her thumb harshly. “I’ve always been different. My entire life I’ve been trying to fit in somewhere. I fit in with them.”

“Fitting in isn’t belonging. It’s the opposite. If you must change yourself to be accepted, that isn’t belonging. I should know, I had a lot of experience with it.” He was now standing in front of her legs, staring down. “I know I have no business telling you to not allow others to bully you due to our history but I’m going to anyway. I’ve seen you do amazing and fucking terrifying things to help other people. You ignore the little voice in your head and just do what you think is right. It’s fucking brave. You’re braver than anyone I know and especially braver than me. You are the Golden Girl and the Brightest Witch of Our Age. Actually, scratch those two things. You are Hermione fucking Granger. A talented and brilliant witch. Don’t let people treat you like you aren’t.”

Hermione stared up in his grey eyes. They were dark, the pupils’ massive depths of black, swallowing her whole. His shoulders were heaving as he stood above her.

“Malfoy.” She whispered the word.

“Excuse me?”

“It’s Hermione Malfoy now.”

The intensity in his eyes somehow increased and before she could understand what was happening, he was lowering himself to the floor, kneeling in front of where she sat.

“Hermione fucking Malfoy. My wife.” The words grazed over her skin, travelling down her neck, arms and chest until they took root in her belly, blossoming into a heat that made her fingertips tingle. He had leaned in, only a few inches from her, black was overtaking grey, and a faint blush settled on his cheeks. His lips were slightly parted and looked so inviting. Hermione remembered the way they felt against her, how they had demanded her to open herself wide for him.

Hermione had pined before.

She had pined after Viktor Krum in fourth year. After sneaking peeks of him in the library, she had remembered daydreaming about rough broom hands and dark brooding eyes.

Hermione had longed before too.

Ron had been so close yet so far away for the entirety of their time at Hogwarts. She had imagined their life together in between lessons and a war, filled with comfort and warmth.

What she hadn’t done before was burn.

Her lips connected with his so forcefully that had he not gained some weight back; they would have been sent sprawling backwards. Whatever spell that stopped him from reaching out towards her ended, and he wrapped one hand fully in her hair, letting the curls intertwine between each knuckle. The other hand snaked to her back. She felt the ghost of his fingertips drift over her shoulder blade until it reached the nape of her neck. One solitary finger slid down the vertebrae of her spine until it reached where she met the cushion of the sofa.

Once his touch ceased detailing her bones, she felt his firm grasp around her hips, scooting her to the edge of the cushion until they met. She gasped at the sudden connection of his hips against her inner thighs, allowing him the opportunity to infiltrate her mouth once more. He didn’t seek permission, just conquered the new expanse in one swift motion. It was just as soft as she had remembered as he explored all the hidden parts of her.

She gripped his shirt but felt her own hands trail upwards until they held the back of his head, ensuring he couldn’t get away. Her fingernails grazed the still short white wisps, feeling the juxtaposition of smooth skin and sharp hair between her palms against his neck and her fingers against his scalp. She moaned into his mouth as his hands dug into her thighs. He froze for a moment at the sudden sound of pleasure, causing Hermione to remember the horror on his face while he had stared down at his hands after their last kiss.

She wasn’t sure what they were doing was right. In fact, she was almost certain it was very wrong, but the idea of it ending made her want to crumble.

Without any sense of control, she felt her hands tug at his hair, pulling him in closer as their mouths melded together. This time, it was he who moaned. A type of frenzy took over him at her touch and he tugged her towards him once more, this time meeting her centre in the movement.

He was hard through his trousers. With her legs spread to either side of him and his hips flush against hers, she could feel every inch of the outline. She keened as he rocked into her. He pulled away, kissing the side of her neck. “Oh gods, I know it’s wrong.”

He tugged her hair, causing her head to fall back and expose the flesh as he trailed wet kisses to the front of her neck. “I still think about it. That room in the Ministry. How I should have been better and turned you away.” He rocked into her again, harder this time. Hermione felt her body clench at the sensation. “But I can’t get it out of my head. You’re haunting me.”

He licked up the centre of her neck to the tip of her chin. “All I can think about is being inside of you again and again and again.” He pulled back and Hermione was once more staring at him. His lips were swollen and red and pulled into a grimace. Leaning forward again, he rubbed his cock against the fabric of her jeans over and over, all the while looking so ashamed at the words he was confessing and his actions. She could taste his guilt still on her tongue and instead of it leeching away any of her arousal, it only served to spur it on.

The pressure was building with every tilt of his hip, his newfound rhythm steady. His hands were once more around her hips, vices holding her in place as he ground against her core. Her arms found purchase around his shoulders, holding herself upright so she could continue to watch him, their faces so close but not touching.

Just watching each other.

“Oh fuck… I shouldn’t… want this.” His groans were breathless, spoken between each stroke of himself against her heat. She cried out as he angled upward, hitting that sensitive bundle of nerves. “I can’t… I can’t… I’m so fucked…” his whimpers caused her to feel that impending cord tighten.

She was so close to her orgasm that it felt almost inevitable. She kept getting nearer, but every time she thought she was about to peak, it faded. The repeated rise and fall made her entire body feel overheated. Hermione whimpered as he rolled into her, still not quite reaching where she needed him.

“Please.” Her cry sounded needy and through hooded lids, she saw that eerie look of reverence on his face as he gazed down at her.

“Anything. Tell me what you need, I’ll do anything.” His words were almost as pleading as hers.

“Tilt up again like you did before.”

He immediately followed her command, making direct contact, causing stars to explode behind her closed lids. She mewled, causing him to groan in response.

“Oh fuck, you’re moaning, and I don’t think I’m going to last much longer.” He sounded almost mournful.

She gripped his shoulders harder. “Keep- keep doing that and- and… I’ll…” she couldn’t finish the words as he continued to move, following her directions perfectly.

With every hard collision into her clit, she felt that cord grow tauter and tauter, like a bowstring ready to fire.

“Please look at me this time.” His words were strained and hot against her face. He grabbed her harder, forcing her body against him more forcefully. Hermione opened her eyes and took in all the vulnerability, all the desire, all the confusing adoration in his grey gaze and she snapped, the prolonged edging making her orgasm so hard it was almost painful. She felt lips against her mouth, swallowing her moans and gasps greedily until he slammed into her one last time, his own groan echoing down her throat.

He pulled away from the kiss slowly, before placing a sweet peck against her raw lips once more. He stayed connected to her, pressing his forehead against hers. “I finally made you cum. I just needed a little guidance.”

Cold water splashed into her face. That's what his words were.

Hermione pulled her head back, eyes wide. He was wearing a goofy smile and his eyes looked glassy in his afterglow. He was looking at her like she hung the stars and moon in the sky.

Oh god, what had she done?

He had tied himself to her to save his life, because he had no other options. He was reliant on her to survive. She was his lifeline to the world. He had been isolated for so long. Suddenly, she remembered the shame and guilt that had been thickly painted on his features, his broken whimpers of not being able to stop, which she had ignored, lost in the pleasure his body offered her.

You’re haunting me.

Not words of affection but a confession.

“Please get off me.” Her words were tight.

Like a switch being flipped, all light left his eyes.

“What are you doing?” he questioned nervously.

“I want to get up now. Please move.” She felt nearly hysterical. Like he had done moments earlier, he followed her order without further hesitation.

“I’m going to bed now. This… I’m sorry, I shouldn’t have. I’m sorry.” She sounded brittle.

“Are you saying you regret it?” Each word held less and less emotion behind it. Hermione could picture a stone gate slowly lowering behind his eyes.

“It shouldn’t have happened. I was emotional from the evening, and it wasn’t fair of me to do that. I shouldn’t have done that.” She couldn’t look him in the eyes, knowing she wouldn’t find him there, not really.

“Nothing to worry about, Granger. I’ll consider it a thank you for attending that terrible meal. Let me know if you ever need to release emotions again. You might as well get something out of this shit bargain you made. Wouldn’t want me to accidentally think you did it on my behalf.”

She flinched at his detached words.

“I’m- I’m going to bed now. Goodnight.” She fled.

Once safely locked in her own room, she ripped her clothes off, not able to bear the sensation of her still wet knickers against her swollen flesh and crawled into bed naked.

She thought she heard the Floo whoosh.

She did not get up to see where he had gone.

She traced the letters on her forearm until the skin of the L was so raw it almost split, the entire time thinking of stone-grey eyes.

Notes:

The mouths are touching the mouths are touching!

Thank you everyone for all the kind comments and messages! I swear that I read each one, I am slowly making my way through responding! Y’all are so kind and amazing!!

To my beautiful betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, I’d be lost without you! Thank you for all the support and guidance. Grammar is hard lol.

This was written on my iPhone while I had terrible food poisoning from eating a burrito. It was delicious while it lasted. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 17

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione was tired of feeling guilty.

Tired of feeling guilty when she didn’t do enough. Tired of feeling guilty when she did what was expected of her. Tired of feeling guilty when she did things that nobody else was willing to do. Tired of feeling guilty for doing the things she wanted to do.

She had wanted to kiss Malfoy.

It had been an inevitable event. The force that moved her limbs could not be denied. It felt as necessary as her next breath as she had watched him lay claim to her as his wife, like he was proud of the fact.

She wanted to balk at her own actions, her own abuse of his situation. She had watched him cry when Crookshanks had simply given him attention. Hermione had given him her body to save his life, one of the first human interactions he had had since his release, and it had been tinged with violence.

His only experience with sex had left him confused. Every soft glance, every trail of his eyes against her skin, every bizarre look of veneration, all because she hadn’t hurt him, hadn’t let him die. He had confused gratitude with want.

Hermione let out a silent scream into her pillow at the absolute shame that bled from every pore.

Oh god, she had taken advantage of him, used his inexperience and his lack of intimacy and human connection to fulfil her own needs.

Hermione punched her pillow, the humiliation and guilt manifesting into restlessness and agitation.

Throwing her covers off, she stood. It was almost five in the morning. She hadn’t heard the Floo again. He would still be out and hopefully would stay that way for a while.

In hopes of scrubbing away the remnants of clumsy touches, she walked to the toilet. Her scar was raw from rubbing the puckered skin late into the night and she decided to apply salve. When she looked into the mirror, she spotted red marks on the side of her neck, gifts from a mouth that had been intent on tasting every part of her. She opened the medicine cabinet to hide her reflection and found the tin.

It was almost empty, nothing but slippery residue on the edges.

Strange.

She hadn’t used any in the last month.

Hermione reached to the discoloured skin on her neck. Her cheeks flushed as she remembered Draco’s mouth against her, and she flicked the washroom light switch off.

She trudged to the kitchen, set on making the strongest cup of tea she could. Over the sound of the water boiling, Hermione heard the rush of the Floo and then a soft thud.

She shut off the stove, determined to make it to her room before whoever had arrived saw her.

“Oh, dear wife!” She froze at the obviously very inebriated man. “I’ve returned to our humble abode!” He was a pile in the fireplace. She attempted to sneak silently to her room, but an errant floorboard squeaked loudly.

Dammit.

From the ashy floor of the fireplace, he looked up at her. “Were you trying to hide from me?” His face looked serene. He turned to his hands and knees and crawled out of the Floo. “It makes sense. You finally realised the monster you let in your home. Into your bed.”

Hermione felt her breath catch. “You’re drunk again.”

He laughed and sank back onto his heels ungracefully. “Thought I’d do you a favour and let you pretend I was drunk. It worked so well for you last time.”

He giggled and wagged a finger. “I drank a Sobriety Potion right before I Flooed home when I kissed you after Theo’s.”

Her heart began to thrum. He had seemed more alert that night, but she had let the glassy look in his eyes fool her.

“Turns out even the bright Hermione Granger can’t tell the difference between drunk on firewhiskey and drunk on lust.” He covered his mouth. “Oops. I mean Hermione Malfoy.”

She winced at the taunt. “Malfoy, you’re drunk now, you don’t know what you’re talking about.”

He rolled his eyes and huffed. “Oh yes, please tell me what I mean. I’m just a directionless criminal. I need to be told how to act. Teach me, oh good one.” He pressed his palms together as if in prayer.

“I’m getting you a Sobriety Potion right now. I don’t want to talk to you like this.”

“Ha! Like you ever want to talk to me. I’m just a nasty little reminder of how you got in too deep trying to be a do-gooder.”

Hermione stayed silent.

“Please note how I stood up to the redheaded banshee when she was disparaging your reputation, but you stayed rather quiet when it came to mine.” He glanced her up and down. “Much like you are now.”

“I’m not talking to you until you’ve sobered up. You can either go sleep it off or you can take the damn potion.” She walked to her apothecary cabinet and found the vial she needed. Hermione paused for a moment.

Four.

She could have sworn she had purchased a half dozen when she had last made a trip to Diagon.

A loud crash had her rushing back to the sitting room.

Malfoy had toppled over a side table in his attempt to use it as leverage to stand. “Whoops. I hope I didn’t break it. I have a nasty habit of breaking things I touch.”

She attempted to help pull him up, his heavy body needing almost more assistance than she was physically able to give.

He accidentally kicked out a foot when he lost his balance once more, his dragonhide shoe catching her on the ankle. She let out a grunt as she automatically bent over to grab the aching bone.

“Oh fuck, I’m-I’m sorry, Granger. Are you okay? Are you hurt?” He stumbled forward, grabbing her arms to stand her up. His movements were sloppy and off-balance, but his touch was as soft as she remembered.

Instinctively, Hermione put her hands on his chest, trying to right herself. She heard his gasp at her touch, his red-tinged eyes looking into her face. He held her a moment longer and then ripped his hands away, stepping back and almost falling once more in the process.

“Fuck. Don’t touch me. You can’t touch me.” His plea reminded her of his whimpers from the previous night. Her cheeks burned in shame.

“Malfoy, please take the potion.” Her words were spoken to the floor as she focused on her bare feet.

He hesitated for a moment but uncorked the vial and threw his head back as he swallowed the contents. Hermione decided to use the few moments before the potion took full effect to ask a question she wasn’t sure he would answer sober.

“Where did you go?” She kept her voice soft, trying to not sound accusatory.

“I went to Theo’s. I… I didn’t tell him I was there. I bribed Tippi with the promise of a very expensive Acromantula silk tie to let me into my private quarters without alerting him.” His voice became less airy as he spoke. “I got sodded off a very expensive bottle of firewhiskey I nicked from his study.” His eyes were losing the drunken haze right before her.

“Why did you come back?”

His tone was once again level. His posture straightened, balance returning to his tall frame. “I like being close to you. Even if it’s wrong.”

Hermione swallowed before the now sober man.

“I-I need to apologise to you Malfoy. I’m so sorry for… for…”

“Stop, please. You always apologise when it’s not your place. You don’t need to explain anything. You don’t owe me anything.”

She flinched. He wasn’t angry, he just sounded sad.

“No, I do need to. I feel like I took advantage of you.”

His face contorted into confusion. “Excuse me?”

Oh god, this is embarrassing.

“I know our dynamic here isn’t equal. You rely on me for your survival, and I ignored the boundaries that should have been in place. That’s not why I married you.” She gnawed on her lip, wishing she could just disappear.

“What the fuck are you talking about?”

“You haven’t had a lot of human interaction in the last few years and obviously us being intimate made an impression on you. I knew that and I’m sorry that I took advantage of it.”

“Are you telling me you pushed me away because you felt guilty that you took advantage of my innocence?” It sounded worse out loud.

“I’m so sorry.” She was gripping her sleep shirt for something to hold on to so she wouldn’t turn tail and run.

“What the fuck, Hermione.” She snapped her head up at her name. He was the picture of bewilderment, hands in fists by his side. “Why wouldn’t you tell me… why would you let me think that it was because of me?”

She furrowed her brow. “You?”

He ran his hands through his growing hair, exasperated. “Do you know how guilty I felt for the Ministry? I was sick to my stomach for what I had done, and I wanted to forget it, only I couldn’t. I couldn’t get it out my mind, how soft your fucking skin was even with my aunt’s words carved into it. The word I used countless times growing up.” He took a step closer. “I thought I was a sick man because I couldn’t help but touch myself, imagining your curls against my skin, imagining how you tasted. You saved my fucking life, and I was wanking off in the guestroom of the cottage that you let me live in, biting my pillow so you wouldn’t hear me because I don’t even have a fucking wand to silence the room.

“We had sex, and you ran from home, obviously disgusted to have done something like that with me. You said pretty words about a truce, and I tried to let them convince me that maybe you felt something, anything towards me but you got scared almost immediately at the first hint of me not being a monster. It made you uncomfortable to view me as anything other than a cause. And then I kissed you. You looked so shocked, but you let me and I took what I wanted, whether it was right to or not. I was so lost in you that I didn’t realise right away what a fucked-up situation it was.”

He laughed humourlessly. “You know I almost agreed to that awful dinner the first time you asked me, but I remembered that look on your face when you sipped a cup of fucking tea that I had made, and I was scared. Scared you would run away again but I couldn’t stop imagining you with that stupid Weasel.

“There I go again, being the evil bastard everyone expects. I didn’t go because I suddenly wanted to support you, I went because the idea of that asshole anywhere near you made me want to punch down a wall. And it was fucking terrible, and they treated you like dirt, but you kept making excuses for them. You let them spew vitriol at you and accepted it with open arms, when you couldn’t even look me in the eyes half the time. And then you kissed me. Oh gods, how much I wanted to show you I was a good person by turning you away, that I wouldn’t constantly take things that weren’t mine to take, wouldn’t ruin everything. But I’m not a good person. I’m not brave. I’m not strong. You splayed yourself wide open before me and I couldn’t help myself. Do you know your moans are even sweeter than I ever imagined? And believe me, I imagined.”

His hands were shaking now as he stood in the sitting room. His shadow was large against the walls as the sun began to peak over the horizon. “You let me touch you, taste you, feel your orgasm under my hands and I tried to convince myself you wanted it just as much.”

“It has nothing to do with my dirty blood?” She wasn’t sure why she asked the question. He hadn’t treated her like her blood meant anything, hadn’t thrown her birthright in her face since his arrival.

“Your blood doesn’t mean a damn thing to me. I thought I had at least proven that much to you.” His voice was broken, and his lower lip wobbled.

Hermione hated feeling guilty.

“I’m sorry. I don’t know why I said that. It wasn't fair of me. Or true. I just-I know you’re in a delicate place and I don’t want you feeling like you owe me anything. I don’t want you confusing gratitude with something… more.”

“Was it gratitude when I was on my knees before you or when I stroked myself to the thought of you? Did it feel like gratitude when I made you cum against my cock?”

Hermione’s cheeks were on fire, and she felt the pressure between her legs as he continued.

“Make no mistake, I am thankful to you, but it isn’t goodness and purity that are causing these thoughts. I might not be very experienced, and I do want to learn, but not from just anyone. I want you. I want you to be the one to teach me.”

She swallowed as he took a step closer, invading the space between them. “We shouldn’t. You’re trapped in my home. I don’t want you to feel somehow indebted to me because of the Kiss.” She could hear her thin resolve beginning to crack.

He was grazing her sides with his fingertips, goosebumps blooming across her skin.

“Take advantage of me if you want to call it that.” She could feel his words whispered against her skin as his nose skimmed her jaw.

“You… you don’t have any other experience. That’s what this is.”

“If you need to convince yourself that’s why, I’ll let you. I'm offering myself to you. Take it. Take me.”

She gasped as he began kissing her neck, his teeth grazing the sensitive skin. Though her words were saying one thing, her hands were saying another as her fingers dug into his back. She was sure she would be able to count ten individual marks once the bruises settled in.

“Malfoy…”

“Please, Granger. I want you to take it. I’m choosing you. Please.” He was leaning back, staring at her. His eyes were glassy and wide, like he couldn’t get enough of her in his hands, like he wanted to drink in every part of her.

Drunk on lust.

She lunged.

Grabbing by the front of his shirt, she yanked him down, pressing her lips into his with all the hunger that had been building.

He pulled back. “Say the words, Granger. I need to hear them clearly.” They were uttered so delicately.

“I want you.”

He began kissing her furiously, tangling his fingers in her curls. “This will be the fucking death of me.”

He pulled the hairs at the base of her neck, pulling back to expose the skin, like he had the night before. Hermione hissed at the tug on her scalp, but it was quickly soothed as he began to suck and lap at the still-sensitive skin. His wet traverse stopped at the neckline of her shirt.

“Please…” he lifted the material, skimming his fingertips against the bare skin of her sides but made no movement to remove it.

She nodded her head and allowed the soft cotton material to slip against her skin as he pulled it off of her. The collar gathered her loose curls until the shirt was fully off. She had no bra on.

If Hermione had thought she had seen him look at her with want or awe in his eyes before, she had been wrong.

His face hung slack at the sight of her only clothed in her own hair and a pair of simple cotton knickers. He looked at her like he had been struck by lightning, like he had never seen something so spectacular before.

He looked like he was preparing to worship her.

Reaching out a tentative hand, he brushed the back of his pointer and middle finger down the slope of her breast, letting it drag softly against her nipple. It pebbled at his touch and his pupils dilated impossibly larger.

“Oh… fuck…” the words floated off a sigh. Glancing up and realising that she wasn’t going to stop him, he brought his other hand forward and palmed her breast in his warm grasp, brushing both of his thumbs against her hardened nipples, eliciting a moan. Like the night before her pleasure seemed to set him off and before she could blink, he was bringing a peak to his mouth. She gasped and grabbed the back of his shoulders as she raised to the tips of her toes, trying to get closer to him. He sucked and laved with such abandonment, making small sounds of pleasure as he worked.

Hermione had had lovers before. Some had been selfish, some had been giving, and some had been quite good, but none of them had sought to explore her body the way Malfoy did.

She was panting, holding on to him for dear life as he continued. The thin material that separated her from being completely nude was quickly dampening.

“Please, Draco.”

He stopped sucking, removing his lips from the tight pressure he had held around one swollen nipple with a wet pop.

“Tell me what you need.” His complete trust and eagerness once more made the ache between her legs pulse.

“You, too. I want you naked too.”

He hesitated for a moment, glancing down at the arm that held his Dark Mark.

“I don’t care. I promise.” She brought her scarred arm forward. “Do you care about this?”

“No.” His response was quick.

“Yours doesn’t bother me either.”

That was all it took before he was ripping off his jacket, almost tripping as he attempted to pull his trousers off quickly. He didn’t hesitate to remove every article of clothing, no fear or nervousness as he stood before her.

He had filled out more since his release. Regular meals and frequent bicycle rides had brought out more of the muscles in his legs. The scars on his abdomen laced around him and Hermione had the urge to trace her tongue against every single one of them.

The ravenous look that must have been etched across her face was mirrored on his. “Can I take off your knickers?” She nodded slowly, licking her bottom lip.

He walked towards her again, confident in every step, before dropping down once more at her feet. He held her gaze as he slipped his long fingers into the waistband and gently began to slip the material down. The cotton clung to her wetness, revealing just how much she wanted this. He peered down and inspected the soaked cloth with her knickers still around her knees and before she could stop him, he swiped his tongue across liquid that had begun to trail down her inner thigh.

“Ah!” She cried out, regaining her balance by grabbing his head. He lapped one more time at her skin, as if savouring what he had discovered, and then slipped her knickers down her calves, delicately grasping and lifting each foot for her. Once they were off, he threw them amongst the trail of clothing and stood up.

“I’m not good at this. I know I won’t last if I taste anymore of you and I’m too fucking selfish to not be inside of you again.” His voice was scratchy and low, and he looked up. “How do you want me, Granger?”

She wasn’t sure she would ever get used to the way he sought out direction, how he wanted to please her.

“Sit on the sofa.” Hermione didn’t want to be on a bed, not this time. She wanted to make sure that this was as different as it could be from their first experience at the Ministry.

For him. For herself.

He didn’t hesitate and sunk into the seat, legs spread with his hands resting on his thighs, his cock bobbing as he watched her.

“Come here.” His beckon was so low she almost couldn’t hear it.

Hermione walked to him and without second guessing, swung her leg over his so that she sat on his lap. She bit her lip as the sensation of his hard length under her, the ridge of his head pushing against her folds as she rubbed into him.

“Oh-oh gods! That’s-fuck, Hermione.” His whimpers were soft as his hands found her hips. She continued to roll, feeling him grow slick under her.

“Stop, you need to stop, I’m not-I don’t think I’ll last-” he moaned into her neck.

She stilled and shifted her weight on her knees, balancing herself on his shoulders. “Line yourself up against me.”

He made a choking sound as he stared into her eyes. “Are you sure? Please be sure this time.” His voice was so fragile.

She rested her forehead against his, much like he had the night before. “I’m sure, if you are.”

He didn’t respond, just lifted his cock until the head was once again nestled between her folds, sliding it until it found where she needed him. In a slightly clumsy and forceful motion, he pulled her hips down against him until she had taken his length all the way to the hilt. They both moaned in unison. He attempted to pull her back up to slam her down again, but she resisted. Instead, Hermione began to roll her hips, using her knees and his shoulders as leverage, setting the pace he had struggled with the first time. Malfoy’s head fell back against the top of the sofa, staring at her through heavy lids as she lazily slid up and down him. She had been so wet that the movements were unbelievably slippery. The position forced him deeply inside of her, an almost painful sensation low in her abdomen when he bottomed out.

“Please… touch yourself… I’m not…” he gasped into the air, his head turning back and forth continuously like he was in disbelief. Hermione leaned forward, resting her head against his shoulder and began grinding herself against the blonde hairs that rested at the base of his cock. The saliva in her mouth felt thick from her constant gasps, she could feel it stringing between her teeth as she squeezed her eyes tightly, trying to focus on the building pressure. Suddenly she felt hands against her breasts as Malfoy began rubbing her nipples with his thumbs. The sensation added to the already intensifying layers of pleasure. She opened her eyes and looked down.

The sun had fully awakened in the sky, dressing the entire room in gold. Malfoy’s eyes were blazing, and the sunlight was reflected against the gleaming strands on his head. He was watching her like he had never seen anything more exquisite in his life, soaking up every spring of a curl and wet pant as she bounced on top of him.

“Show me everything.” His half-strangled words and the mounting pressure as she ground against him pushed her over the edge. She cried out, once more dropping her head to his shoulder as she bit down on his flesh in her orgasm. She continued to lift her hips up and down, riding out the pleasure she had both given and taken. The experience was so different with him buried inside her body, giving her muscles something to clamp around. As she came down, her muscles felt fatigued. She attempted to keep the same rhythm, but her legs wouldn’t allow it. Malfoy’s hand slid to her bottom and began pulling and pushing while snapping his hips up to meet her, chasing his own end. She continued to cry out, her nerves burnt from catching on fire a moment earlier, and his fingers dug in harder. With a loud moan, he pulled her off him, grasping his glistening cock in his left hand and furiously stroked himself until thick streams shot out, coating his stomach and thighs.

Hermione had caught herself from falling off his lap. She sat leaning back, hands on his knees, panting in shock.

“Oh gods. That was… wow.” His entire body went slack. “We didn’t cast the Contraception Charm. I didn’t want to just… I mean I almost did it accidentally, but I was able to stop. Somehow.”

Hermione stared at him. “The Contraception Charm can be cast up to an hour after intercourse.”

His lazy eyes suddenly widened, and his cheeks turned pink. His head slowly tilted down to where he was still covered in stickiness. “Oh, shit. Of course. I actually knew that. I guess I was distracted. That’s fucking humiliating. I told you, I have almost no idea what I’m doing.”

Any confidence he had had in the buildup was gone, leaving behind embarrassment.

Watching him look so helpless, covered in his own cum, the sun, bathing him in morning light was unbelievably erotic. Hermione held his gaze; she slipped one finger to the mess, smearing it against his skin, revelling in the stickiness between her fingers.

“Am I allowed to think that this was the hottest thing I’ve ever witnessed or is that going to freak you out too much?” It was a joke, but she could hear the real fear as he sat, hiding behind absolutely nothing but words.

Instead of replying she leaned forward and kissed him.

He sighed and gently pulled back as Hermione cast a cleansing charm on them both.

“Even though it was misguided, I want to thank you for worrying about me and trying to think of my well-being in all of this. Not… not many people have in my life.” He bit his lip, his teeth sinking into swollen flesh.

She couldn’t help herself and she kissed him again, savouring the way he gently responded to her.

Hermione had always loved the mornings.

Notes:

Woot woot chapter 17! We love an eager Draco 🙏. Thank you for all the love! It’s been amazing reading the comments!!! Ya’ll are the best!

Thank you to the my bodacious betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for helping me do a limb count for the smut scenes. It’s hard making sure all hands are accounted for.

This chapter was partially written while waiting in line at Costco. RIP to anyone who stood behind me. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 18

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Her skin felt different.

As she washed under the streams of water, she traced her neck, her shoulder, her arms, her stomach, and her legs. They looked as they should, the freckles and moles all where she had left them, but somehow her skin just felt different.

She trailed her fingertips across her throat, knowing new purple and red bruises were forming over old. She ached in between her legs, only now it didn’t sting like shame. Instead, it was like a muscle that hadn’t been used but remembered the strain.

They had had sex.

Not fucked. There was nothing manipulative or sinister behind it, no locked doors, or threats, just two people having sex.

She rubbed her face under the running water.

Oh god, they had had sex.

She could feel her skin flush, remembering how he had touched her, how he had kissed her, how he had let her inside his stone exterior and in return she had let him inside of her body.

How was she supposed to leave the shower and face him? How did she live with him after knowing what he looked like naked and glistening and bathed in sunlight?

She kept trying to imagine their new dynamic as she towelled herself off. She stared at her neck with her wand in hand, wishing she had her salve and debating concealing the marks, but for whatever reason she couldn’t bring herself to do it. Once she was dry, she wrapped the towel tightly around her refreshed body and stepped out. As soon as she exited the steamy room, she saw him as he left his room, freshly clothed. His eyes roved over her damp skin and towel, landing on her neck.

“A bold fashion choice, Granger.” His purr caused a shiver to move up her spine and set fire to the nerves of her scalp.

“My salve seems to be out.”

He froze for a moment or at least Hermione thought he had. It was gone so quickly she couldn’t be sure it had been present at all.

“I should have warned you that I’m vain. I might have applied it rather liberally to avoid any scars or marks.” He motioned down his form. “Any more at least.”

“Maybe I should leave a mark next time too then.”

Malfoy let out what could only be described as a squeak. His ears instantly turned red, looking hot to the touch as his eyes widened. “I’ll make tea.” He turned on his heels and left, his socked foot slipping slightly in the fury of his motion.

That was… odd.

Hermione stared at the space where he had been and heard the tea kettle loudly being filled followed by a faint crash and an even fainter curse. She pondered the entire encounter as she walked to her room to change.

They had had sex.

Her skin felt different.

Malfoy was acting strange.

She donned her comfortable clothes, making sure to wear a bra this time, and felt her heart speed up as she quietly made her way to the kitchen. Two mugs of tea sat on the table and Malfoy was furiously scratching at the wood while Crookshanks looked on.

She cleared her throat causing his head to shoot up.

Where did they go from here?

They were married and had taken a very big step in their relationship, but things hadn’t necessarily changed. They hadn’t shared words of undying love, hadn’t made promises, just accepted the attraction that had been burgeoning under a shared roof. Did they pretend like it didn’t happen and continue the status quo, or did they dare pursue whatever this was and let the chips fall where they may when the five years were over? She sat down at the table, feeling like she was walking on a tightrope, either side leading to potential peril.

“I made tea. It's Earl Grey.”

She blinked at him while he bit down on his lip hard.

“Thanks.” She burned her tongue, eagerly trying to occupy her attention.

“I want to keep having sex.” She choked on the scalding tea at the rushed proclamation. Looking up Hermione saw his face, almost manic in its attention to her. “Turns out people weren't exaggerating. It’s amazing and you’re amazing at it. I can’t stop thinking about it.” He covered his mouth as if he couldn’t believe what had just come out of it.

“Oh.”

“Oh?”

She swore she could see perspiration gathering on his forehead.

“I’m sorry, you just seemed a little spooked. In the hallway.” Her thumb was pressed tightly into the handle of her mug. “By my comment…”

“Yes. Because I was.”

She felt blood rush to her face. “I see.”

“For Salazar’s Sake, why do you do that?” He sounded exasperated.

“What?”

“Why do you always assume it’s you? That when there is a problem it’s your fault, your responsibility. Isn’t carrying the weight of the world exhausting?”

Yes.

“I don't carry the weight of the world and sorry for assuming maybe you aren’t sure about what happened earlier. I mean it was sort of fast and you aren’t very experienced. I’m trying to be understanding.”

“How noble of you, Granger.” His tone was droll.

She felt her own frustration beginning to rear. “What else could it be then?”

He groaned and pressed the heels of his palms into his eyes, speaking without looking at her. “You talked about the next time. Like you’re planning on it happening again.”

Frustration transformed into embarrassment. “I thought… if you don’t want…”

“Of course I want to!” He practically shouted at her, his hands shooting away from his face in surprise. “All I do is want! It’s like I’m fourteen all over again and I can’t control my own bloody body. You came out in nothing but your towel and the love bite I made on your neck! I was attempting to keep my cool and not look like an absolute git and then you alluded to one of the most amazing moments of my miserable life potentially happening again and I lost it. And you’re you, witch extraordinaire. You have an Order of Merlin, there is a statue of you in the Ministry, and you’ll probably end up being the bloody Minister of Magic! I’m a twenty-three-year-old virgin with an ugly tattoo and a cell with my name on it and yet somehow you might let me touch you again. I had to step away in the hall so I wouldn’t pick you up right then and there. Then you came in looking fucking soft and warm and I just blurted out the first thing I could think of which was sex. I don’t know what I’m doing. I don’t know how to do any of this.” He scraped his fingers against his hair and then focused on the spot he had been scratching at previously, face a bright red.

Hermione could feel her mouth hanging open at his declaration. Somehow in his haphazard rant he had summed up her concerns. Would it happen again? How would they navigate everything?

“Please say something,” he mumbled.

He wanted to explore something that hadn’t been available to him for a long time. He insisted he was offering himself to her the way she had offered her life for his, of his own volition. She could allow that, could wrap her head around that.

Sliding her chair out away from the table, Hermione stood up. Malfoy’s eyes remained glued on her as she crossed the distance between them. Still seated, he beheld her, mystified. She leaned forward and pressed her lips gently into his. He remained still for a moment before reaching up and firmly holding her cheeks, fingers grazing her curls and deepening the kiss.

Pulling away, Hermione studied his searching gaze, hoping he understood what she was trying to convey. A wide grin spread lazily across his face, displaying his bright teeth that Hermione had tasted that morning. Once more he pulled her down, moaning into her waiting mouth and moving to sit her in his lap. He kissed her fervently, as if they hadn’t been connected two hours earlier. Even more surprising was the familiar warmth that travelled through her body, tingling from the top of her scalp to the tips of her bare toes.

A whoosh from the Floo had Hermione jumping off, nearly falling in the process.

Theo stepped out neatly, smiling as he brushed his robes off.

“Hello, dear friends!”

Hermione quickly turned, pretending to wash her hands in the sink, attempting to lower her heart rate and willing her flush to fade. It didn’t seem likely.

“Theo, to what do we owe the pleasure?” Malfoy’s voice was maddeningly calm and collected. When she was done with her ruse, she dried herself off and glanced at the man she had been sitting on just a moment earlier. He still sat at the table, hands casually resting on the wood top. He was leaning back with practised ease, and a look of affectionate annoyance on his face at his dear friend. You couldn’t tell that he had just confessed to being driven wild by her.

“I wanted to invite my friends, who I feel like I’ve barely seen, to a small soiree. Just the usual crowd, of course.”

“That didn’t go particularly well last time.” Malfoy’s tone was easy going, but his finger scratched at the table twice.

Theo softened and a look of vulnerability passed over him. “Nobody blames you, Draco. You know that. Blaise isn’t mad, I promise. We just miss you.” His dark green eyes were pleading.

“Ah yes, how good of you all.” Hermione caught Malfoy glancing towards her, looking for some kind of answer.

“I don’t see why not.” She sounded tentative but couldn’t bring herself to turn him down.

Theo immediately burst into a grin. “Oh perfect! It’s tonight if that’s alright with you both. No need to bring anything other than your charming selves.” He glanced at Hermione, frowning slightly. “Did something happen to your lip? It looks a little swollen.” He motioned to his own mouth.

She smacked her hand to her lips, covering the offending skin, thankful her thick hair was hanging around her neck. “I accidentally burned it with my tea.”

A brown brow raised. “You should put some salve on it. I’d offer you some when you come over, but I seemed to have misplaced it. Anyways, we’ll see you at seven o’clock.” He pointed a finger at Malfoy. “Don’t you dare back out or else I’ll drag you over myself. No more self-imposed isolation, we never see you.” Malfoy rolled his eyes and nodded.

Hermione felt that whisper in the back of her skull. Malfoy had been going to Theo’s regularly, but Theo acted like he hadn’t seen him in weeks.

Theo Flooed away and Malfoy let out a sigh.

“I thought you’ve been to Nott Manor quite a bit recently?” She glanced at her nails, trying to act nonchalant.

“I might owe Tippi a fair few items of clothing.” His eyes glanced momentarily at her, but swiftly moved away. “Theo always did have the worst timing.” Malfoy scrubbed his face and took a sip of his cold tea. “I’m surprised he didn’t figure out exactly what was going on from the way you were acting. You’re a terrible liar.”

“What? No, I’m not.”

“Yes, you are. Not even you look convinced by what you’re saying even as we speak.”

“I’m a fantastic liar, thank you very much.” She felt the corners of her lips move downward.

“See that right there, you were grimacing the entire time you said that very obvious lie.”

She glared at him. “Fine, why don’t you explain how to do better.”

“Easy. You just need to believe what you’re saying is the truth. Consider your lie the truth and you’ll convince everyone else too. What you are saying is an undeniable fact. You need to convince yourself so much that the line becomes blurry even to you.”

“So, you lie to everyone around you, including yourself, so fully that the deception becomes fact?”

“Exactly.”

“That’s horrifying!”

“No. It's effective.”

“Why would you even need to learn to lie like that??”

“Survival.”

“You’re still just trying to survive?”

“We’re all just trying to survive Granger. Maybe I’m just better at it than others.”

She couldn’t explain the sinking feeling she felt in her stomach. His sentiment was something she had told herself so many times. It was a thought she often had when checking her wards or making sure her beaded bag was properly filled but somehow it unsettled her in a way she couldn’t pin down.

He stood, a half-smile on his lips. “I must admit, I am curious if I’ll be able to keep my hands to myself tonight.” Leaning down, he gave her a peck and thoughts dissolved. “Does it ever stop? Wanting to touch you all the time?” Any coyness disappeared, replaced by that soft wonder that made her feel lightheaded.

Hermione wasn’t sure. She had been in sexual relationships before and while she enjoyed her sexuality it had never felt so compelling as it did with him. Like she couldn’t stop herself even if she wanted to. That fact alone was terrifying.

“I’m honestly not sure.”

He snorted. “I guess this is what they call the honeymoon phase.”

She didn’t like the way her heart swooped at the comment, like it meant something to her. She rubbed her thumb, allowing the sting to clear her head and her hormones. “I’m starving. I’m going to make some food and then I really must get some work done if we are going out tonight.”

His face furrowed for a single moment before his light smile returned. “I have also seemed to work up an appetite this fine morning. I’ll make the toast.”

They began their easy ritual and Hermione allowed herself a small reprieve to think of nothing but breakfast.

~~

It had been hard to keep her focus.

After eating, she had locked herself in the library and worked as best she could, trying to not keep an ear out for footsteps or any words. The hours went by slowly and Hermione kept finding herself drifting off, remembering the touch of skin or the taste of a tongue. She would realise she was staring at nothing before snapping out of it and trying to regroup.

The rush of butterflies in her stomach at the thought of seeing him again kept her away until it was time to get ready. She tiptoed to her room, heart in her throat and dressed, deciding on a beautifully simple cream summer dress. She swept her hair up only to remember what secrets rested on the skin of her throat. She stared into the long mirror of her room and cast a quick concealing charm, careful to make sure every mark was gone. She left her hair down, just in case. With a spritz of her perfume, she took a deep breath and left the confines of her room.

He was casually leaning against the fireplace, arm resting on the top of the mantel. His black trousers and white button down were as pressed and fitted as ever. He was theatrically talking to Crookshanks, causing Hermione’s heart to squeeze tightly.

“Don’t you dare weave around my legs, I’ll never get the hair off my trousers. You stay where you are, and I’ll promise you extra breakfast tomorrow.”

“You’re going to make him ill.”

He glanced to where she was entering the sitting room. “I have no other bartering tools with him.”

“Maybe don’t barter with him at all?”

“Kneazles are quite brilliant. I have no doubt that the beast knows exactly what I’m saying.” He eyed the orange animal who lifted his chin slightly at the towering man. His head turned towards her, eyes growing wide. “You look beautiful.” The words were a quiet praise, his eyes roaming over her silhouette.

She rubbed her hands against the linen material, the rough skin around her thumbnail snagging on the cloth. “Thank you. I didn’t want to incur any more of Pansy’s compliments.”

“She’s always had a way with words, that’s for certain.” The secretive smile left Hermione feeling off-balanced. Fighting, participating in witty banter, sex - she knew how to do that. It felt somehow intuitive to their dynamic. Enemies and lovers were, after all, the inversion of each other. They had stopped being enemies a long time ago but the foundation to be good-naturedly catty was still there. Building a relationship that took place in that in between felt harder and so much more intimate.

She cleared her throat. “We better go, it’s nearly seven and I have full faith in Theo’s threat.”

He chuckled as she walked into the Floo, jumping when she felt a large hand at the base of her spine. The familiarity in the gesture felt somehow comforting and electrifying at the same time. Glancing over to Malfoy, she saw no signs of that same jolt she had felt. He just looked content…maybe even happy? She quickly looked away, focusing on the sitting room as it disappeared.

When they arrived at Nott Manor, they were welcomed with the sound of laughter and the clinking of glasses.

“Ahh, the newlyweds decided to grace us with their presence!” Theo’s voice boomed as he stepped towards them, glasses in hand. He handed the crystal to Hermione and seemed hesitant for a moment before passing the glass to Malfoy. “We are so happy to have you. Please, make yourself at home. Drinks are available of course.” He glanced nervously at the blonde wizard who had taken a large gulp of the firewhiskey.

“I told you she dresses better now. Look at that dress; I’d consider wearing that dress. Well, probably not actually but still, I’m pleasantly surprised.” She felt her smile strain lightly at Pansy’s words as she kissed Hermione’s cheek.

“Petal, once more we will have to work on your delivery. Hello, Hermione, per usual, apologies for this one.” Blaise had a patient smile on his face as he gave her a small peck of his own.

“Oh, is she here?” A new voice that Hermione hadn’t recognised before floated to her, a handsome golden-haired man approached her. He was older and his movement was confident as he reached out a hand towards her. “Hello, Hermione, I’m Ben Copper. I’ve heard a lot about you.” She took his warm hand into hers and shook it slightly, still not sure who he was.

“Hermione, this is Ben. He was a seventh-year student at Hogwarts when we were first years.”

“Oh! I thought you looked familiar. You were in Gryffindor!”

The man grinned. “Our paths didn’t cross very much, though I do believe I had to track you down for a copy of Spellman’s Syllabary for my Ancient Runes class. Imagine my surprise when Pince told me a first year had checked the book out.”

Hermione felt her cheeks pinken as the individuals around her burst into laughter. “I was planning out the courses I wanted to take when I got older.”

Theo was rubbing a tear from his eye. “That might be one of the most Hermione stories I’ve ever heard.”

“I do remember the look of surprise on your face, Ben, when you asked a tiny bushy-haired girl when she would be done and she replied, “I’ve already read it through, I’m just referencing it against Advanced Rune Translations. ” Malfoy was beaming at her, the openness of his smile in their current group was surprising to Hermione.

“You were there?” She hadn’t remembered blonde hair at the library that day.

He flushed.

“Draco here spent a lot of time at the library. I still remember studying with him and having to listen to, “the little know-it-all who hogs all of the texts.” One could almost say he spent more time eyeing a certain someone than actually studying.” Theo grinned as his friend who was now a much deeper shade of red.

“I was a fantastic student and very dedicated to my studies.” Malfoy mumbled.

“Maybe if you had focused better, you would have been top of the class instead of Granger.” Pansy’s bell-like laugh was muffled under a beautiful, manicured hand.

“Pansy, if I'm not mistaken you nearly didn’t pass Herbology, and I had to help you study.”

Her laugh turned into a scowl. “You know I didn’t like playing in the dirt! Also, that was fourth year which was quite distracting as you might remember, with the tournament!”

As the close friends continued to banter, Ben edged towards Hermione. “Honestly, it’s nice to have someone else who didn’t grow up with these four around. You can feel a bit left out of the jokes.”

“Do you spend much time with them?”

“Yes, Blaise and I have been partners for the last two years.”

Hermione was stunned. “But I thought he and Pansy…” her unspoken question trailed off.

He nodded, his face slightly tilting downwards. “They are engaged, but he and I are a monogamous couple.”

Her confusion must have been evident because he smiled at her gently and continued. “Wizarding laws are very conservative. Quite a few of Blaise’s stepfathers had clauses where he wouldn’t receive full inheritance until he was married. Married to a witch, that is, not a wizard. His mother, who knows about his orientation, tried to change it because she had inherited the money after her husbands’ deaths. That changed once she realised her son was in love with a Muggleborn man.”’

“God, that’s awful.” The level of bigotry Ben must have faced for being gay on top of being a Muggleborn was unimaginable.

The man’s brown eyes gazed towards the ground. “He, of course, offered to forfeit his inheritance, but I wouldn’t allow it. He would lose all his estates, everything he owns.”

He glanced back at Hermione. “I don’t know how much of his past you’re aware of, but he and his mother faced a lot of ridicule in the world for how they acquired their fortune. Blaise will never fully get over it and I could never make him go through that again.”

“So… Pansy?” Hermione wasn’t sure where the confident witch played into this.

“She’s been Blaise’s best friend for years. She knew what predicament he was in and offered to marry him and divorce him after ten years. At that point he would have fulfilled his inheritance requirement. Someone should really do something about those damn laws. They aren’t right.”

He sighed “I attempted to petition to have the law changed but was told it was a decided matter and part of the Wizarding World’s traditions. It didn’t even make it to the Wizengamot. I just got a dismissal letter. Nobody wanted to listen to an employee at the Owl Post Office, especially a gay Muggleborn.”

She made a sound of disgust. “It’s foul how they treat anyone who doesn’t fit into their idea of a witch or wizard.” She felt her mouth curve into a frown. “I’m so sorry, Ben. I wish I could help. They barely listen to me in the Ministry, even for my own job.”

He gently touched her arm. “Oh, Hermione, I wasn’t telling you because I was hoping you could jump in and save the day. I’ve made my peace with how things are.”

“Then why are you telling me?”

He looked towards where the friends were easily laughing together, Theo telling a story about trying to track down a cursed ring. His eyes landed on Blaise.

“Just… be careful. I know we just met officially but you seem like a sincere person. Animals attack when they’re hurt, snakes especially.” His focus, which had been fully on his partner, shifted towards the blonde who was sitting on a sofa, leaning back, seemingly completely at ease. “And that man is hurting.”

“You’re with a snake yourself in case you aren’t aware.” She could feel something akin to protectiveness bubble up as he studied her husband.

“Oh, believe me, I know. I have the scars to prove it.” He looked back to where Blaise was chatting with Theo. “I love him and wouldn’t trade him for the world but this love…it burns you if you aren’t careful. They weren’t raised like us you know; their world is made up of secrets and shadows and expectations. It never truly leaves them: the shame, the anger, the guilt, the sense of duty. Add the fact that as Muggleborns we are already forced to be slightly out of step and it’s just… hard. We are from separate worlds and bridging that gap can be difficult. Deeply rewarding, if you put in the effort, but difficult.”

Hermione thought back to all the moments she had shared with Malfoy. The way he was able to hide almost every emotion from the world, like flipping the switch he had only recently learned about. She thought about the way his mother had reverted him to that obedient and nasty boy she had remembered, even if it had been so brief.

“We aren’t like you and Blaise. It’s different for us.” She scratched at her neck where imprints of kisses were still concealed.

Ben shrugged his shoulders. “Right, of course. Even still, just something to keep in mind.”

The subject was dropped, replaced with chatter about the Gryffindor Common room and which dessert from Hogwarts had been best. It felt lovely to talk to someone idly, no lives hanging in the balance, no judgement of her choices, another person who had ended up connected to someone with a dark past.

The evening continued and soon they were swapping stories about the school that they had all called home at some point or another. It was a commonality that connected them despite blood status, wealth, or House. Malfoy had just finished telling them about when the Giant Squid had stolen his very expensive dragonhide satchel that had been a gift from his mother when he reached for the bottle of firewhiskey that sat on the table, pouring himself another generous portion. Hermione worried for a moment, remembering the way he had stumbled in that morning. He seemed fully in control of himself, but a faint redness was starting to appear in the whites of his eyes. Theo also seemed to notice, a small frown forming. He quickly took the bottle and filled his glass with the last of the liquid, cutting off Malfoy’s supply.

“We have seemed to run out of alcohol.” Malfoy’s words were joking but Hermione thought she detected a hint of a slur.

“It’s getting rather late, Draco. I think I saw your wife yawn," Theo lied smoothly.

When Malfoy glanced at her, his face melted into a doting grin. “I think it’s time we got you to bed, Granger.” She felt her heart skip momentarily at the double meaning of the words.

The friends stood and said their goodbyes. When they stepped into the Floo, Hermione felt Malfoy’s hand once more touch her lower back. Unlike earlier, it dropped downward until he firmly grasped her bum cheek in his grip. She bit her cheek to keep from yelping as they arrived in her own fireplace. Before they even stepped out, Malfoy used his hold on her to face her towards him. His mouth descended, immediately parting her lips, and massaging her tongue. She could taste the spice of the whiskey in his mouth as he brought his other hand to grope her backside while stumbling backwards, taking her with him through a delicious kiss.

“The moment you came out in this dress I was desperate for you.” His words were muffled into her exposed collarbone. She moaned as he bit down gently on the bone. His hands slid to her hips and slowly began curling his fingers against the fabric, the hem of her dress inching up.

“I couldn’t stop looking at you. Theo probably saw right through me if he couldn’t tell from this morning.” Hermione gasped as his hands pulled the material until it sat around her waist, her knickers, and bare legs on display. “It’s like I have no control over my hands. I found myself reaching towards you, just wanting to touch your skin to see if it’s soft as I imagined or wrap my finger in a curl.” His fingers now slithered against the waistband of her undergarment. “Please let me touch you. I want to touch you so badly.”

Hermione was certain he could feel the pounding of her heart through her skin. She nodded slowly and he groaned before slipping his hand into her knickers, holding the warmth for a moment. “Now this, I have at least a little experience with.” Before she said a word he slipped his fingers lower, trailing them through the pooling wetness. She shivered as he coated his fingers. He kissed her deeply and began rubbing her folds. “You’ll have to tell me where it is best to touch you.” She hummed against his soft lips. Suddenly he delved deeper and rubbed against her clit, the force too harsh.

She yelped once more. “Lighter please.”

His touch lightened to a pleasant pressure. “Up and down or a circle?” He continued to lick her jaw as he asked for guidance. She moaned loudly as he sucked the contour of her chin. “Um… circle?” Her voice was breathy and high-pitched under his hands.

He began rubbing lazy circles that made her knees buckle. Sensing her instability, he slid his free hand from her waist and dragged her leg up, resting the weight of it on his hip, holding her firmly against him. She wrapped her hands around his neck, praying she didn’t fall over. Suddenly the touch on her clit was gone and she felt two fingers push inside of her body.

She cried out as he held her up, her head falling towards his as he hunched over to reach her. His long fingers built a steady rhythm until she was panting and meeting his thrusts, the heel of his palm bouncing against where she needed that extra stimulation. The pressure was building quickly as Hermione rocked into his hand, fingers digging into the white of his shirt. He used his head to move her face until lips met and with one searing kiss, she fell over the edge. Her legs gave out below her as the shockwaves crashed into her, over and over again. He held her firmly until her breathing slowed. Finally, when her body seemed capable of supporting itself, she pushed off him.

A look of pure pride rested on his face. “That was… unimaginably hot. Bloody fantastic, actually.”

Hermione felt pleasantly sleepy, a real yawn escaping. She reached for her wand to Scourgify them both but before she could, he slipped his fingers into his mouth, his eyes closed, and licked them clean. She felt even more winded at the obscene display. Somehow the lewdness of the act led her hands to reach for where he was obviously hard, but he gently pushed her away. “You’re exhausted.”

“No, I’m not.”

“Perhaps that would have been convincing if you hadn’t yawned through it. We must work on your lying.” He kneeled and scooted her skirt down to right her dress. “It’s time for bed, Granger.”

“But you didn’t… you’re still…” she motioned to where he strained against his trousers.

“I want you to be awake when we do that. I want you to know who you’re touching.” His words were spoken so softly as he led her by her hand towards her room. She felt so exhausted from the lack of sleep from the previous night and the energy expelled during her orgasm.

He undressed her as if she were a sleepy child, careful to not snag any of her hair in the zipper. He unfastened her bra and slid the material down her arms. She shivered in the cold until he slipped the sleep shirt that still rested on the bed over her head. Once he was finished, he helped her under the covers. Her eyes were shut but she felt a hand softly brush her hair away from her face before it lifted.

“Stay.” She reached out, her fingers finding his arm. He didn’t say anything for a while. The silence felt like it went on endlessly and Hermione kept her eyes shut, not wanting to witness his rejection. Instead, she heard him walk quietly to the other side of the bed and then the mattress dip.

They laid there under the stars, not touching each other. The gentle sounds of his breathing sunk her deeper and deeper into sleep.

Hermione dreamed.

She dreamt of a dragon flying around a castle through the night sky. It swooped and weaved between towers and spires, wings flapping against the crisp Scottish winds. Hermione watched on as the dragon tilted its mighty head back and a blaze erupted from its powerful jaws.

The sound of the jettison of the fire reminded her faintly of the whoosh of flames in a fireplace.

Once the blast dwindled, Hermione dreamt of nothing at all.

Notes:

Yay! Chapter 18! almost 2/3rds of the way there! Time flies when you can't help but drop surprise chapters lol.

Thank you for all the sweet messages! It means the absolute world to me, ya'll are so amazing!

Mega thanks to my beta babes, rompeprop and noxhunter, ya'll save my butt constantly. Someone needs to tell me when I make words up.

This was written on my still busted iPhone. Thank you for all the concern, it's just the screen protector. I am very lazy. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 19

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
The King’s Arms, somewhere near London, Midnight.

 

Oliver Fletcher kicked open the back door of the pub with his foot, quickly jamming his boot into the door that led to the back alley. The heavy bags of rubbish made the entire endeavour awkward. Once he threw the bags away, he scurried back inside. Recent headlines of attacks made him leery of hanging about in alleyways. At twenty-nine, Oliver wasn’t completely out of shape, but he wasn’t sure he’d be able to fight off an assailant.

It was a busy night at The King’s Arms. Beautiful weather had drawn the locals out and love must have been in the air because he wasn’t sure the last time he had seen so many people snogging in the dim corners of the pub.

“Ollie, another pint good man!” Leonard, a regular, slid his now empty glass over the bar. “And one for my friend here!”

Oliver looked over to where a man sat next to the old sod. His white blonde hair was short, and the shocking colour practically glowed under the old lamp light that lit the establishment. He wore clothes that looked expensive but were rumpled, like he had slept in them. A faint smudge of what looked like lipstick to Oliver was smeared against his shoulder and he swore he could smell faint whiffs of women’s perfume. The rolled sleeve of his shirt revealed what looked like a shoddily done tattoo. The lines were blurry and partially faded, but what looked like a snake and skull could still be made out. The contrast between his straight-backed posture and his hack-job tattoo was surprising.

Oliver had seen his kind before.

Posh preparatory school types who were born with a silver spoon in their mouths. Mummy and daddy bought them every luxury life could offer, provided them every opportunity imaginable but still it wasn’t enough. They rebelled against the hands that fed them and sought out pubs for their benders. Poor bloke had even gotten a shitty tattoo to piss off his parents.

Even though he had seen individuals like this repeatedly in his time as a barman, it always rubbed him the wrong way. Oliver had never gained the upper hand in his life. Having had a father who had disappeared before he was even born, he had been raised by a working-class woman who was a hairdresser. He had begun working as a paperboy the moment he could balance on a bike and continued his employment steadily all the way up to present. School had come easily to him. Oliver had gained a love of reading because without a television or money to do anything, reading books he borrowed from school gave him the opportunity to escape. Through books, he adventured through Middle Earth, sailed around the world, and travelled through space. After he completed his A levels, Oliver had wanted to attend university. He had dreamed of learning in big lecture halls and reading new books, but working two jobs wasn’t conducive to higher education. So, he continued odd jobs here and there until he landed at the King’s Arms. Nearly six years later, Oliver felt like he had passed the best years of his life without ever truly peaking. Watching people who threw away every opportunity they had ever been graciously given made him angry.

Oliver poured the two pints and deftly slid them over to where the drunk men sat.

Even if the young man was a waste of opportunity, money was money.

“My young friend here recently got married, isn’t that right? We’re celebrating.” Leonard messily clanked his glass against the man’s, beer spilling out of the sides.

Oliver eyed the man further, noting the distinctive lack of a ring on his hand. The obvious signs of the touch of a woman and the fact that he was out drinking with a stranger at a pub late in the evening made him question whether it was a blatant lie or if the bastard was already stepping out on his new bride.

Oliver didn’t like cheaters either.

Charlotte had left him exactly fifty days ago. He wouldn’t admit that he was counting the days if anyone asked. Being “emotionally cut-off,” was one of the many things Charlotte had listed as a reason for leaving. The others included being stagnant in life and not taking her out enough.

They were all completely true. While he wasn’t necessarily happy, he was comfortable. His job was easy and repetitive and offered just enough excitement that it didn’t feel utterly dull. And truth be told, on the one free day he had a week, the last thing he wanted to do was spend time in another pub. His work schedule had allowed ample time for Charlotte to begin dating a fellow she had reconnected with from secondary school. She had dropped the bomb when he had come home from work and found her things packed in a box, ready to be taken to the new flat she had rented with Tom, her new boyfriend.

Oliver smiled at the blonde man and raised his water glass. “Cheers, mate.” He chugged the cold water and decided to ignore the bastard and Leonard as best he could for the remainder of the night.

The plan had worked well.

The two men had enjoyed another two pints until they were laughing loudly and slapping each other's backs. The poor blonde git was so drunk, Oliver could have sworn he was telling a story about flying on a broom. After they were done, they slipped off the stools and walked out together, slurring as they went. For a brief moment, Oliver considered warning them about the string of attacks, but they had left before he was out from behind the bar. He shrugged his shoulders and forgot about it moments later.

The night continued much like they often did until the last patron stumbled out. The nightly ritual began by wiping down tables, mopping sticky floors, and counting the till. Finally, it was time to take out the rubbish to the cans in the alley. Much like he had done earlier, Oliver kicked the door with his foot, catching it before it shut and pushing through. The night had gotten somehow even darker, but a streetlamp glowed from high above the door.

“It’s you.”

Oliver swung around, bags of rubbish still in hand.

Sitting on a bench that was typically reserved for smoking was the blonde man.

“You scared the absolute shite outta me, mate, what are you playing at?”

The man laughed. “I’m sorry, I’m sorry. I forgot what a jumpy bunch you all are.”

Oliver felt his anger flare. “What do you mean by you all?” Much like counting days since Charlotte left, Oliver would never admit that he often felt ashamed about his lack of education. Despite knowing he had what it took to do well with higher learning, it wasn’t the same as actually doing it. Though he still read in his free time, it would never compare to attending lectures or getting a degree.

“Oh, don’t get so offended. It’s not a bad thing. Honestly, I’m rather jealous of the simplicity of your lives. What would it be like to just wake up and go to work at just a pub, doing nothing but pouring drinks.” He laughed again, scrubbing his face as he went. “I’d trade that for the Manor and all the gold.”

Oliver dropped the bags of rubbish. He was tired and lonely, and this rich boy was pissing him off. “A Manor and gold? Your life doesn’t seem so bad.”

The blonde man snapped his head up. “Oh, did I strike a nerve?” His glassy eyes trailed down Oliver’s form. “Yes, that does seem accurate.”

Oliver felt the burn up his neck and over his face as he palmed his dirty shirt and ripped jeans. The smell of barley and cleaning solution faintly radiated off him. “Shut up.”

“I never once said anything that wasn’t true, did I? You’re quite testy. No wonder your girl left you” Oliver clenched his fists. “Leonard gets a bit chatty with a few pints in him. Generous man, though, wouldn’t let me pay since I’m newly married.” He cringed, blonde brows pulling low. “Sorry, I should be more sensitive about my happy nuptials. Yours moved in with her new boyfriend, didn’t she?”

“I don’t know what your problem is, you arsehole, but you better shut the fuck up.” Oliver could feel the spit flying from his mouth.

“Don’t be so sensitive, Oliver. Leonard also told me that isn’t your forte.” He took out a small glass bottle. It vaguely looked like something Oliver had seen in a book once about old pharmacies.

“What the fuck is that?” Suddenly Oliver felt nervous. He had heard stories of people taking drugs and getting superhuman freak strength.

“Oh, nothing important. It just helps me sober up. I want to make sure to feel this.” He uncorked the bottle and tossed it back before throwing it, glass shattering on the ground.

“Listen, I don’t know what kind of fucked up game you’re playing, but I want no part of it or your drugs.”

“It’s not a game. I don’t even know if you would be able to keep up with my games. Dear Leonard also mentioned you never went to uni. He wasn’t sure you were very bright. I heard Tom is an accountant?”

That was it.

Oliver stalked towards the blonde man. The man was standing taller, and his face had lost some of his flush. As he reached for him, Oliver wondered what the hell he had taken. It really seemed like he was sobering up before his very eyes as he grabbed the white button up shirt that felt very soft. That was impossible, though he didn’t know much about the drugs available now. He just hoped his punches landed before the man got whatever drug-induced strength the contents of the glass bottle had given him.

The first punch had a deafening thump echoing through the alleyway. The bugger's jaw was sharp, and he felt the skin of his knuckles rip at the pressure. He expected the man to cover his face or cower, but he didn’t, just kept his hands by his side. The lack of retaliation startled Oliver. He loosened his hands on the man’s shirt.

“Don’t tell me you’re a bad shot along with being a bumbling oaf.” His voice was a croak but still held that holier-than-thou posh accent.

Oliver didn’t even care about the pain in his hands when the next blow landed, catching the man in the nose. The crunch and the feeling of cartilage caving in had him almost gagging, but he didn’t care. When the man slid to the floor, Oliver kicked him in the gut. The anger from his life, his relationship, his fucking job forced movement into his leg as he kicked again. Now the man was in the foetal position, his hands protectively around his head as he wheezed. With one final shot, Oliver spat on the ground.

“Fuck you.” His voice was slightly hoarse, and he wondered if he had been yelling as he kicked. He honestly didn’t remember. He looked down and saw the man’s chest rising and falling as he made soft moans. Satisfied that he wasn’t about to die, Oliver turned around, picked up the rubbish and placed them in the cans and then left the stranger in the alley, right where he had found him.

He locked the door, making sure he couldn’t be followed through the back exit of the pub. Once he was back inside, he went to the small grimy toilet and washed his hands, the torn skin stinging under the tap.

A small sad little voice in the back of his mind told him he hadn’t felt this alive in months. When he was satisfied that rubbish juice hadn’t gotten into his wounds, he went back inside to finish closing. He was restocking the bar when he heard the tinkling of the bell above the door.

Great, he had forgotten to lock it.

He looked up from where he had been checking bottles, confused.

Upon remembering, Oliver could have sworn he had turned the lock.

Having shut off most of the lights other than the ones illuminating the back of the bar so people from the street didn’t knock on the glass once they were closed, all he could see was an outline of a man. His heart began to race loudly.

“Oi, we’re closed for the night. That’s why the door sign says ‘Closed’ in big letters.”

The figure stayed silent.

“I don’t know why you’re-” Oliver Fletcher saw a flash of green light and thought ‘pretty’ for a moment before he never thought again.

Notes:

Yay a new update! Don’t kill me, I promise all shall be revealed in the future. But the mystery is fine, right?

Forever thank you to my bombshell betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for keeping me readable. Y’all are the best.

This was written while listening to too much Neutral Milk Hotel while drinking Diet Coke. I found a sticker in my hair when I was done. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 20

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione woke up alone in bed. 

She reached over to touch where she had remembered Draco lying and found cold bedding instead. 

Her heart began to pump as she remembered the strange dream and the dragon blowing fire. She could have sworn it sounded like a Floo. She threw off the covers and found sleep shorts to throw on. 

She quickly burst out of the room and noted his door was open and his room was empty, same with the toilet. Upon seeing each empty space, Hermione became more nervous.

“Shit!”

She ran into the kitchen where the curse had come from.

Standing in front of the stove, Malfoy was attempting to flip an egg.

Only… she wasn’t sure it was an egg. The burned remains looked like it could have been any number of foods, but the distinctive scent of sulphur had her suspecting eggs. 

“What are you doing?” 

He turned, thumb in his mouth. “Making breakfast but I’ve seemed to have burned myself.” He shook out the appendage. “I know that you like to struggle like the common man, but magic does make things easier.” 

She sighed and padded back to her room to grab her wand. When she returned, she grabbed his hand and cast a healing charm. “If you hadn’t wasted the salve I gave you, you could have dressed this yourself.”

He grinned cheekily at her. “And waste your healing touch? I would never.” 

“You’re lucky I keep extra healing supplies in my beaded bag.” She walked to where the small purse sat and rifled through it until she found another tin. “Only because I won’t always be there to heal you and I’d like for you to make it out of this wandless year with all of your fingers.” She set the salve on the counter, making a mental note to replenish it later.

He flicked his eyes towards the beaded bag, saying nothing, and then flicked them back to the culinary disaster before him. “These are hopeless. Thank goodness I planned.” He walked to the counter to where an unfamiliar glass cake stand sat. Turning, he lifted the lid and revealed beautiful chocolate croissants. Each was perfectly drizzled with milk chocolate and the egg wash made the golden and flaky dough gleam. “I may have had Fig prepare these and place a stasis charm on them after you went to bed.”

She stared at the bizarre gift, mouth hanging open. “Why?”

His cheeks flushed slightly as he set the platter on the table, suddenly looking nervous. “I was craving them myself and I figured why not. You always feed me. I may be naturally inclined to be spoiled but I would like to not be an absolute freeloader.” 

Suddenly, he pulled an envelope from his pocket. “This should help in that regard. Had I known this was going to arrive today, I wouldn’t have made a midnight run.”

Hermione felt her stomach knot. Mail was currently one of her least favourite forms of communication. “What’s that?”

He smiled, brilliant white teeth shining. “It’s my Gringotts keys.” 

He had mentioned previously that his vaults had been held up in red tape since he had not received the Kiss as planned.

Vaults. He had vaults of gold. 

“Unfortunately, I must go fill out some paperwork in person. I have the keys but no wand for identification. I’m to be escorted by an Auror so I can have my identity verified for future withdrawals.”

She could sense the nerves that were laced throughout his words. 

“You haven’t been to Diagon in quite some time.” She slowly sat at the table. 

“Try in five years.” He shivered slightly before also sitting. “I don’t expect to be welcomed. I'm not typically a fan of Aurors, but I’d like to think that if I was about to be Avada’d in the streets, they might  lift a finger to help me.” He ran his fingers unconsciously over the eye that had been so swollen when he had left Azkaban. “Though I can’t be certain they won’t be the ones to cast it themselves.” 

“Maybe Harry could escort you? I could ask him.” 

He shuddered. “Death might be preferable.” 

She rolled her eyes. “Don’t be ridiculous. He’ll help if I ask him. You need to go to Gringotts, you might as well go with someone you trust.”

“I don’t trust him.”

“Fine. Do you trust me?” Her question caused his head to lift from where he had been once again picking at the wood grain. He stared her in the eyes before nodding and blinking his eyes slowly.

“Then it’s settled. I’ll Owl him right now.” She quickly found the needed supplies and called Bathilda. Once she was done, she sat down and picked up a pastry. It was an odd sort of gift, something so simple but it felt important somehow. 

“Thank you for these. They are one of my favourites.” He had again been nervously scratching at the wood. She smiled at him and took a small bite of the croissant she had selected, feeling the crumbs fall. He grinned and grabbed a croissant for himself. Suddenly, a spectral stag flew through the window and stood before Hermione. 

“Hermione, I suppose I can escort the Ferret. It will have to be today. I have availability at two this afternoon. Feel free to send a Patronus back. I’ll just be in my office for the next hour, if that works for you both.”

Once Harry’s voice faded, the stag dissipated into fine silver wisps until it was gone. She looked at Malfoy. “Is today alright with you? Harry has been in the middle of a busy case so I’m not sure when he’ll have more free time.”

He gulped and wiped a few crumbs from where they had gathered on his lip. “Yes. The Ministry says I need to attend to this matter today anyways. Please tell Saint Potter thank you for taking time from his busy schedule of saving the world for little old me.” His snark felt defensive. 

“I won’t actually be saying that, but I will make sure to thank him for you.” She cast the spell thinking of her parents laughing as she reenacted a scene from Midsummer. 

Her otter appeared and sat patiently before her, waiting for her message. “Harry. Thank you for your willingness to help so quickly.” She glanced at the blonde wizard. “Malfoy is very appreciative of you. Two works perfectly. He will Floo to the Leaky and meet you there.” 

“Of course you can cast a corporeal Patronus.” Malfoy was staring at her, his croissant still in his hand.

“I had some trouble with it in fifth year, but it’s gotten easier.”

“Bloody Merlin, fifth year? I couldn’t even cast one now.” His admissions always managed to surprise Hermione.

“I’m sure you could manage it if you had a wand. You just need to think of something supremely happy.”

He snorted. “Not a lot of that in my life unfortunately.” He watched as she licked chocolate off of the pad of her finger. His eyes caught hers and held them. “Give me a year. I might have something blissful enough by then.” 

They continued to enjoy the last of their pastries in silence until it was time for Hermione to begin work 

~~

Hermione padded down the hallway to her study and reluctantly shifted her focus to the Lycanthropy Wing.

A meeting had been planned to set a date for construction on the wing. They had jumped through every hoop and counted every knut. The date was set for one week from now and Hermione had been ecstatic to send the Owls to Hannah and Andromeda. 

She had requested to be present as a member of the Department for Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures but had not heard anything back. She was accustomed to her requests being ignored, but this felt particularly retaliatory. 

The morning passed quickly. It was almost time for Malfoy to Floo to the Leaky Cauldron. 

When she stepped out of her small library, she found him sitting, reading a book, or at least pretending to read. Matilda shook slightly in his hands as he stared past the pages. Already dressed in dark robes, he kept eyeing the clock on the walls, watching the hands move slowly. 

“It’s going to be fine.” 

“I haven’t been out in five years. You can’t be positive that it will be fine.” He did not glance up at her, just kept moving his fingers through the pages.

“I could go with you?”

He shook his head. “I don’t think we will attract less attention together. If anything, it might rile everyone up.”

“Harry won’t let anything happen to you.” She knew her friend held no love for Malfoy, but he wouldn’t put him at risk or leave him to defend himself without a wand. 

“People hate me. I’m aware of it. I got my share of death threats and Howlers when I was on house arrest. For things I didn’t do and about people I hadn’t ever laid eyes on. Everyone wanted their pound of flesh.” 

He finally pulled his attention from the timepiece and gave her a nervous look. “Let’s hope Potter is as good at shield charms as you are.” He stood, carefully depositing Matilda on the table. “I should be going. I’m not sure how long it’ll be.”

She nodded her head, unsure of how to reassure him. 

He stepped into the Floo and with that, he was gone. 

~~

Hermione felt restless. 

He had been gone for only thirty minutes, but she couldn’t seem to focus on any more paperwork. Part of her desperately wanted to send a Patronus to Harry and make sure everything was going alright, but she recognised how ridiculous that was. It was just an official trip to Gringotts. He was being escorted not only by an Auror but by her friend. He would be fine.

Once she accepted that no additional work would be finished today, Hermione walked back out to the small kitchen to put on the kettle. As the water began to boil, a quiet rapping at the window caught her attention. She opened the window for Bathilda and a cylinder-shaped item plopped onto the counter. It seemed that the Ministry’s demand had come earlier than the paper today. 

Hermione had been avoiding the paper like the plague. She wasn’t unaccustomed to being featured in the Prophet, but she had a suspicion this wouldn’t be positive press.

For some reason, either nervous Malfoy-related energy or a sense that she couldn’t keep burying her head in the sand, she unfurled the newspaper. 

Parents of Murdered Witch Want Justice

The headline caught Hermione’s attention before her eyes fell to the moving picture. 

The creases around the mouth and the hollowness under the eyes seemed to suck in the dark grey pigment of the printed ink contrasting viciously against the paleness of the face. 

The witch in the purple robes. 

It was the face that had haunted her since the day she had proposed. The man with the moustache stood slightly behind the woman. A loop of the two solemn faces staring straight ahead while flashes around them went off. 

Hermione had thought that the witch had been familiar, but she hadn’t been able to place where she had seen her before. Too afraid to question Theo and wanting to forget the entire ordeal, she had left the witch and her awful screams be relegated to her nightmares. 

But this was no dream. 

She felt her heart thump as she read the article before her. 

Mr. Ignatius Appleby and Mrs. Marjorie Appleby fervently spoke against the release of convicted Death Eater, Draco Lucius Malfoy. In a surprising turn of events, Mr. Malfoy was released in the final hour before his scheduled Kiss by the impromptu proposal from War Hero, Hermione Malfoy (née Granger). As a result of old wizarding legislation known as the Gallows Marriage Law, Mr. Malfoy was released into the care of his bride once they made their nuptials official. “It’s horrifying and a slap to the face to everyone who lost someone in the war,” Mrs. Appleby lamented in an exclusive interview. “Hermione Granger should be ashamed of herself and what she has done. My daughter will never have the justice she deserved.”

The grieving couple lost their daughter, Cora Jones (née Appleby) and their son-in-law, Daniel Jones, during the war. Daniel Jones, a known Muggleborn, and his wife were captured when they attempted to escape Britain. Taken hostage for three weeks, Daniel succumbed to an infection from a splinching accident while attempting to Apparate from Snatchers. Sadly, Mrs. Jones suffered from extensive exposure to the Cruciatus Curse until finally falling victim to the Killing Curse. Though the caster is unknown, it has been highly suggested that Draco Malfoy played a part in both the torture and killing of Mrs. Jones.

"It was a sad day for the Wizarding World,” Mr. Appleby tearfully shared, “that criminals can go free when innocent people’s lives were taken during the war. I just can’t wrap my head around it. This law shouldn’t exist.”

Hermione’s eyes fell to another picture, a young woman with long hair posing next to a tall man, obviously a wedding photo. They smiled broadly at the photographer before turning to face each other, the love apparent in the way they held each other's gaze. 

She felt the rush of bile move its way up her throat, reaching the sink right before she vomited violently.

So that was where she had remembered the witch from. Another article in the paper about those who testified against Death Eaters during the trial. The Appleby’s had testified against Greyback, but she had forgotten that they had also spoken against Malfoy. Their poor daughter had been held at Malfoy Manor and had experienced hell before a Killing Curse had ended her life. She had committed no crime other than loving a Muggleborn. 

Hermione was surprised by the next heave into the sink, the back of her throat burning from acid and shame. It tasted vaguely sweet, like chocolate.

Oh god, what had she done?

Suddenly every moment she had spent with Malfoy felt tainted. He had hurt people and had potentially even cast the curse that killed Cora Jones.

Ron’s previous words came back to her. She had brushed them aside at the time, too caught up in defending Malfoy. She had been convinced it was Ron’s prejudice that had made him say those words, but as she pushed back the thick curls that felt like they were suffocating her, she wasn’t so sure. 

Who had she let into her life? Her home? 

Her body?

In a daze, she heard the kettle whistle. Mindlessly she poured her cup of tea and walked to the sofa, not conscious of any of her actions.

Without thinking, she had made Earl Grey. It reminded her of Malfoy and the bergamot tasted bitter. She left it on the table, unable to choke down another sip.

She sat there, staring at her nearly bleeding thumb as she picked and rubbed and destroyed the calloused skin. 

She sat until she heard the call of the Floo. 

Malfoy stepped out and brushed himself off before noticing her on the sofa. “Merlin! You scared me. Now I know how you felt all those times you almost blasted me.” He swung off his outer robe, hanging it neatly on the coat rack in the corner. “Were you waiting for me? How very doting of you. As you can see, I’m alive.” He grinned at her over his shoulder before making his way to the kitchen.

“Oh wonderful, you made Earl Grey. I was so sure I’d come home to the disgusting excuse you call a cup of tea.” His voice echoed from the other room along with the tinkering sounds of a spoon stirring in a cup. 

“Potter ended up being very useful. Did you know he has an Invisibility Cloak? Lucky bastard, I wanted one so badly as a child. Anyways as soon as I arrived at the Leaky he was waiting and threw the thing over me. I had to crouch the entire time, but we made it to Gringotts without being spotted. The goblins were a little on edge since I didn’t have my wand for verification, but I was able to visit my vaults. Apparently, Ministry workers have been in and out, pilfering about and looking for Dark Artefacts. Somehow the first five years they had access for Reparation payments wasn’t enough. Still, there is plenty of gold and some Malfoy heirlooms left.”

He stepped out of the kitchen with his mug and smiled. “Welcome to life in the one percent, Granger. I know you self-sacrificing types don’t revel in riches, but I’m here to show you that money can buy at least some happiness.” 

Suddenly, he seemed to take in her position and her torn apart thumb. “Granger?”

She had brought the newspaper and it sat on the coffee table before her, the ghostly faces staring at the ceiling. 

He walked over and noticed the article, the colour in his face bleeding out. “What’s that?”

“Today’s Daily Prophet.” Her voice sounded distant, like she was talking from another room. “Do you remember the Applebys? 

“Why are you asking me that?” His voice was quiet.

“They gave an interview. An exclusive apparently.”

“What’s happened? Why are you acting like this?” Hysteria was beginning to peek through the words.

“They talked about their daughter. Do you remember her? Cora Jones.”

“I don’t know anyone named Cora Jones.” He was still standing and grasping onto his mug like it was a portkey that could take him away from this. 

From her. 

“That’s interesting because apparently, she was a guest at the Malfoy Manor. Much like I was a guest.” Her words were flat.

“What are you doing?” He sounded vaguely like he was begging. 

Hermione did not pay heed to the silent plea to stop talking. “Apparently she was tortured and eventually killed in your home.” She finally looked at him fully. He was shaking slightly, drops of tea trailing down the side of the cup in his hands. “Her parents say you played a role in it.”

The words rang out like a crash of thunder in the room. 

Moments passed as he stared at her, horror apparent in his face. “Why are you doing this?”

She ignored the question. “Did you do it? Did you torture her? Were you there when she died?”

He crashed the mug down, the contents splattering all over the wood of the table. “Why are you bringing this up now?” His now empty hands shook, the fingers flexing hard. 

“You didn’t answer my question.” She could hear the bitterness seeping into her voice. 

“You know I didn’t have a choice. You aren’t exactly given options by the Dark Lord.”

“It’s a yes or no, Malfoy.”

“Why are you running away again?” His venomous words threw her off guard. 

“I’m not running. I’m asking you a question.” She stood up, feeling the anger fill her limbs. 

“That’s not what this is, and we both know it. You knew I had a past. I never kept my actions a secret. I never claimed to be a good person. You’re the one that told me that I was a child at the time. That I did what was necessary to survive.”

“Like torturing innocent people? Like murdering them?” She took a step towards him, fighting the urge to point her wand at him. 

“You don’t know what it was like. You weren’t there.”

“No, I wasn’t there. I was busy trying to end the damned war!”

He glared at her. “Of course, you, The Chosen One, and the Weasel, tirelessly working to right the wrongs of people like me.” 

“I need you to be honest with me, Malfoy. I went out on a limb for you. I risked my entire life for you.” 

“I didn’t fucking ask you to save me.”

The words felt like a slap in the face.

He was towering over her now, his shoulders rising and falling with his rapid breath. “I never once asked you to fucking stand there and make me that offer! I remember telling you to drop it and let me be. But no, not Hermione Granger, not the fucking Golden Girl. You had to butt your pushy little head into my life because you can’t stand your own.”

Hermione felt her ears ringing, she wanted him to stop but he just kept going, like a renegade vehicle with the brakes cut, waiting for something, anything to stop the momentum. 

“You’re so desperate for any scrap of affection you can get but you’re fucking terrified of any kind of actual intimacy.”  

“No, I- that’s not true,” her voice was a hoarse whisper but he kept barrelling on.

“Really? It’s not true? You were so desperate for human connection that you married a man with a death sentence. You needed someone to have to choose between you or death to feel like you had a chance. It was the perfect situation for you. It forced someone to need you, to be indebted to you, to be fixed by you, without you needing to give any of yourself.”

“I helped you. I gave so much of myself!”

“Helped me? Helped me? I told you to drop it! Who would fucking want this? To constantly be fled from, to have every awful thing you’ve done flung in your face, to be the act that creates a martyr. Who would want this life, be connected to someone who makes you feel like that?”

All the anger that Malfoy had seemed to hold evaporated in an instant. 

“I didn’t mean it like that.”

“Get out.” Her voice cracked. 

“No, no, I’m sorry.” He took a step forward, but she quickly stepped back, keeping the distance between them. 

“If you don’t, I will.”

He stared at her. 

“I’m serious. I don’t want you here.” Hermione held her chin firm, unwilling to back down.

“Fine. But remember, I’m not the one who broke this. I was all in. I’ve been all in. You’ve had a foot out the door since the very beginning, looking for any way to not face yourself and what you feel. So, when you lie in bed and wonder what the hell happened, know that I was all in.” 

With that he walked to the fireplace, muttered “Nott Manor” and was gone. 

Hermione stood amongst the emotional wreckage and debris that remained in his wake. While not a single item had been broken, she wasn’t sure she had ever seen such devastation before.

Notes:

Chapter 20! That's wild! Thanks for all the love and support. I love how ya'll are discussing theories in the comments! Can't wait for you to find out which is right.
A small note, it has been brought to my attention that AGM has been basically copy and pasted and reposted as a Drarry. Thank you to those who reached out about it! It's very weird lol. I have reached out to the author so we shall see what happens there.

A big thanks to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter, for catching my non-British spelling. I need the guidance and you two are the best!

This was written while eating Costco orzo pasta salad. 10/10 no notes. Yes, my screen protector is still cracked, I will change it one day. Hopefully. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 21

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
The cottage was silent. 

Her once beloved solitude now felt empty. 

The creaks and shudders of the winds blowing through the green grass of the fields and into the cottage walls sounded like footsteps. Crookshanks pawed at the robe that still hung on a hook, its presence like a ghost.

Two days had passed in near complete silence. 

She had not heard a word from Malfoy, nor had she reached out to him. Her stomach was an intricate braiding of anger, horror, guilt, remorse and longing, each thread so tightly wound against the other, impossible to piece out. 

The fear on his face when he saw the Applebys in the paper was enough to validate his connection to them. She had been so determined that she needed to help him that she had allowed herself to be blind to his past actions. 

After he had left, she stormed into her library and began ransacking her desk and shelves. She pulled out any news articles she could get her hands on, feverish in her search for information. 

Articles about his arrest, his mother, even about Lucius, she stacked them all on her desk.  Bite by bite she forced herself to read it all.

Draco Malfoy, Youngest Death Eater, Arrested. 

He looked so young in the photo. Eyes frantically shot to every flash of a camera and tear trails caught the light.

Draco Malfoy Sentenced to Indefinite House Arrest. 

He looked angry in this one. His sneer was pronounced as he glared alternately at the camera and the unpictured Ministry officials. 

Lean Sentencing Due to Last Minute Act: A Mother’s Brave Choice or A Criminal’s Manipulation?

Narcissa posed as regally as ever, face revealing no facet of emotion. 

Lucius Abraxas Malfoy Found Guilty of All Charges. Kiss to be Performed on the 20th of February. 

In the photograph, Lucius bared his teeth and lunged for the camera, the restraints on the chair holding him back. 

Son of Convicted Death Eater, Draco Lucius Malfoy, Faces Allegations of War Crimes. 

Malfoy yanked on his bonds in fear. The photo had been taken well into his house arrest sentence, at a public hearing to decide whether his isolation would continue or if he would be taken to Azkaban.

“Youngest Death Eater, Draco Malfoy, to be Taken to Azkaban for Alleged War Crimes. Further Deliberation to Take Place on Final Sentencing. ”

He appeared older in this, though the date was only weeks after the previous photo. The vivid emotion of the first three moving newspaper pictures was dulled out. There was no fight in the picture, just grey eyes focusing straight ahead. It reminded her so much of the front page that had dragged her into this entire ordeal. Very little was said about the actual crimes committed, just heavily alluded to. 

Things like abuse, abduction, murder. 

But it also reflected his experience. At trials and in interviews, his stories of acting under threat of torture and death for himself, his family. He mentioned the fear he lived with daily while Voldemort and his dangerous followers inhabited Malfoy manor. 

The narratives of a cold-blooded killer and a duressed child painted a murky picture. Hermione had always been someone who assumed that the truth lay somewhere in the middle. 

The memories of the alleged acts were deemed inconclusive as many of the witnesses had experienced torture and other injuries, rendering their memories as “tampered” according to the Wizengamot. 

In an article from the Quibbler, Luna claimed that she had received bread and water from Malfoy during her capture, once even a blanket. Had the witch not been on a travelling assignment for the paper in New Guinea, Hermione would have gone to visit her to extract any piece of information she could reasonably demand.

Her head felt like it was going to split apart as she read the articles over and over again. Two days had passed, and she still didn’t understand what she felt or what to believe. 

The Floo rang out as she bent over the papers once more and her stomach dropped.

“Hermione?” Theo’s voice made her tense for a moment. 

She stood and walked to the sitting room, gut roiling. 

“Theo. You’re here.” 

“Hello, Hermione. I hope it’s alright that I came over.”

She nodded but crossed her arms, protecting herself from what she wasn’t sure she wanted to discuss. 

“I think we should talk.”

She said nothing, just continued to stare into his green eyes. 

“Alright, well I’m going to sit.” He slowly descended into the sofa. Once seated, he rubbed his hands up and down his trousers nervously. “I think you probably know why I’m here.”

“I have a guess or two.” She was in no mood to be kind or helpful.

“Yes. Right. Um… how have you been?”

“Since finding out the person I married might have tortured and killed a woman and seems to be lying to me? Not great.”

He flinched. “That’s fair.”

“I’d say so.” Her words felt sharp on her tongue, and she delighted in it. It felt like an outlet for all the emotions that had been brewing inside of her. “And him?” She bit her cheek hard. She hadn’t wanted to ask, hadn’t wanted to accept that an infinitesimally small part of her had been worried. 

“Awful.” He rubbed his face with his hands. 

Her stomach dropped. “Good.”

Theo looked at her and she saw anger blossoming on his face. “Now, that isn’t fair.”

She scoffed. “Really? I'm not sure how.”

“You could have researched his past at any moment. In fact, I assumed you had. You’re Hermione Granger, Queen of the Swots and you didn’t do your homework before this big decision and now you’re angry about it. You could have asked me for any amount of information about Draco and I would have happily told you. You didn’t want to know.”

She eyed him dubiously. “And you would have been so forthcoming? Because Malfoy didn’t seem to want to fess up when I asked him if he knew the Applebys.”

“Yes, he didn’t want to admit to the single most terrible moment of his life.”

“Of his life? That’s a laugh, at least he has a life left. Cora can’t say the same.”

Theo stood suddenly, startling Hermione. “You have no idea what the situation was. None. Make no mistake, a piece of Draco died that night.”

“What does that mean?” 

He glared at her. “You saw that article and were so quick to just accept it. Just another Death Eater killing and maiming, for what? Fun? You weren’t there. You didn’t see how that war ate away at him, just took chunks out. Some of us didn’t get the luxury of being born on the good side. Some of us had to learn that what we were doing, what we had been born to believe, was wrong. Maybe it’s not right, but it’s hard to accept that the people who loved you, and raised you pushed you down a path that held nothing but pain and hatred.” 

“Are you saying the Prophet was wrong?” 

He snorted. “I wouldn’t think you of all people would blindly believe the Daily Prophet.”

“What else did I have to go on? It wasn’t like he was answering any of my questions when I asked him. Should I just forgive him for saying awful things and lying to me?”

Theo’s exterior cracked at her question and his shoulders slumped. “No. Of course not. I’m just hoping you’ll hear him out, that’s all.”

Once more, she crossed her arms across her chest in a transparent attempt at indifference. “I don’t see him here to apologise.”

He frowned slightly. “You told him to leave. It’s your home. He isn’t going to just show up here if you don’t want him. He’s trying to respect your wishes.” 

“It’s not like he can stay away. He has to live with me for one year or he’ll get sent back to Azkaban.”

Theo looked at her with pleading eyes. “He knows what the requirements are. He still won’t come back unless it’s your decision.”

“So, he would risk going to Azkaban to prove some point?” It didn’t seem very believable to her.

“He would rather go to Azkaban than make you feel uncomfortable or unsafe in your own home. Remember, he knows that feeling intimately.”

Theo’s words felt like a punch to her gut. He continued to hold her stare for just a moment. “Well, I’m going to go. Draco would be livid if he knew I was here. I don’t want to leave him alone for too long. I made that mistake yesterday and found him drunk in a fountain with a bloodied lip having tripped over his big feet.” 

“It's been that bad?” She watched him glance back from the fireplace. 

“I’ve only ever seen him heartbroken once and it was after Pansy in fifth year. That was child’s play compared to this.”

“I’m not sure we’re like that. I thought before– there’s just so many secrets between us still.”

He gave her a small smile that didn’t reach his eyes. “Right. Of course, sorry.” 

With a small nod of his head, he Flooed away, and she was once more alone. 

~~

Hermione couldn’t sleep. Even though she felt the exhaustion in every cell of her body, her brain wouldn’t shut off. Like a never-ending carousel, it spun in circles from Mrs. Appleby’s angry face to Malfoy’s sweet smile as he showed off the pastries, to the image of Cora Jones on her wedding day, to Theo glaring at her in her sitting room. 

Malfoy saying that she both craved companionship while also shoving it away from her wasn’t wrong. She had always suspected she isolated herself in fear that someone would recognise the dark and ugly bits of her. Was that what she was doing now? The lines between self-preservation and self-isolation were blurring in her sleepless state.

It had been two days since she had slept. She was so exhausted. Exhausted of being alone, exhausted of being scared to not be alone, exhausted with second-guessing every decision she made. 

She honestly felt drunk. The lack of sleep caused her head to spin and her limbs to vibrate slightly. She hadn’t been able to keep her eyes closed for long since the night she had fallen asleep next to him. 

She had slept so well with Malfoy the two times it had happened. Her dreams had been either beautiful or blissfully non-existent. The way he had gently tucked her into bed felt like a dream now too, each movement precise and careful. It reminded her of the way she held a rare tome. As if touching her too hard would ruin the pages of her skin. 

She attempted to close her eyes, begging her brain to just shut off and allow her the refuge of a few hours of silence but none came. Her brow was pounding, and the queasiness of sleep-deprivation was sinking its teeth in. Hermione felt the urge to cry but the idea of the pressure getting any worse behind her eyes made her dig her nails into her palms to stop the flow before it ever began.

She gave up two hours later. Grabbing her wand, she thought of the first time she had entered the quiet library at Hogwarts and realised that she really was a witch, and with that memory, she cast her Patronus. 

“Draco, please come home. I need help.” She directed her otter to Nott Manor and then threw her wand to her bedside table. She couldn’t think straight, couldn’t move past the wall of exhaustion she was pressed against. 

Minutes passed, maybe hours, she couldn’t tell other than the morning light hadn’t broken through her windows yet. 

The Floo sounded, followed by heavy footsteps trailing around the cottage. A moment later, her door swung open, banging against the wall.

“Hermione! Are you alright? What happened?” Malfoy’s voice boomed, making her wince slightly. 

“Too loud.” Her groan seemed to make his shoulders sag.

“Oh, thank Merlin.” She heard him step closer. “What’s wrong?”

“I can’t sleep. I haven’t slept in two days. My head is pounding, and I can’t just… turn any of it off. My stupid brain won’t shut off.” Her words were frantic. She could feel the frustration bubbling. Her hands, which had been scrubbing at her face, slid into her hair, pulling on the roots to relieve some of the pressure of her skull. “I just need sleep. That’s it, just sleep.” Each word got louder and more rushed, slurring together. 

“Hey, calm down, calm down.” She finally looked at him. He was really there. His eyes were large, searching over her form that was half-concealed by her covers. He didn’t seem to know how to respond to the situation before him as he stalled in the doorway. “You called me because you couldn’t sleep?” 

“Please, Draco.” Her voice sounded watery and thin, like it had been pulled under the waves of her weariness. 

He hesitated for a moment longer, his face unreadable, before nodding ever so slightly. Without further conversation, he quietly walked to the unoccupied side and slipped underneath the covers. The dip of the mattress relaxed Hermione almost immediately. She was too tired to question why her senses just whispered safesafesafe as he curled himself behind her. They weren’t touching but her nerve-endings could pick up on the outline that protectively arranged around her. 

“Shh, go to sleep, Hermione. I’m here.” The whispered words felt like a balm against her fatigued consciousness. Before she knew it, she was falling into blissful oblivion.

~~

She woke up feeling warm. 

Flashes from the night before blasted through her like a rogue hex making her squeeze her eyes tight. She had sent a Patronus in her delirium, asking Malfoy to come back to her.

And he had. He had shown up quickly or at least she was fairly sure it had been quickly. 

Willing herself to move as gently as she could, she rolled to face her husband. 

He had inched much closer to her, almost flushed against her back. His body heat radiated into her bones. The dark rings under his eyes looked pronounced, like he hadn’t slept well either. Scruffy whiskers grew along his jaw and his bottom lip was swollen around the torn skin of a split. He hadn’t let Theo heal it. 

She moved past the cut and trailed down further. He slept in a white button down and black trousers. The shirt was torn and two buttons were missing. If she had to guess he was wearing the same clothes he had left in, though they were significantly worse for wear. He didn’t smell at all and while the elbow looked split, no dirt was present. Hermione guessed Theo had hit him with a Scourgify after the fountain incident. 

His legs were tucked into his chest, and she peered down to his feet. She hadn’t remembered him removing his shoes but only his black socks were present. She wondered if she had once more caused him to go searching for her without proper footwear. Her chest squeezed tightly. 

Theo had been right. He looked awful. 

It made her feel all the more conflicted. How did she reconcile his past with the man who came searching for her in the night, who slept like a child next to her now?

She was pulled from her thoughts as he shifted. His bleary eyes blinked open. He looked up towards the ceiling, catching the stars and his lids widened. A hand shot out, grasping Hermione’s elbow as if to verify that she was real, to stop her from disappearing if she wasn’t. 

They stared at one another, their breathing syncing up as one inhaled the others exhale until Hermione felt lightheaded. 

“You came home.” she whispered.

“You asked me to.” His voice was even. 

She took a deep inhale. She wasn’t sure she forgave him, but as she felt the warmth from his long fingers imprint into her skin and saw the fear in his eyes, she was willing to listen. 

“I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have kicked you out when we obviously needed to talk. I have always held the belief that you didn’t have a choice in your actions in the war, but when I was faced with the reality, with the actual people who were affected, I didn’t know how to react. I am sorry for that. But I need you to tell me what happened.” He pursed his lips, but she persevered. “I need to know. I deserve to know the truth.”

He looked down to where they were connected and rubbed his thumb gently against her skin. “Alright.”

“What happened to Cora?” 

He flinched at the name, his thumb pressing in heavier. She wondered if the skin would be tender later. 

He didn’t immediately respond, and she was about to ask once more when he opened his mouth, still staring at his fingers. “My Aunt Bellatrix trained me during the war. Even though he died, I had failed my task to kill Dumbledore. The Dark Lord was angry but that was nothing compared to Bella. She told me I was a disappointment to the entire Malfoy and Black bloodlines, that I was weak, and I needed to learn how to be a proper servant. So, she began my rigorous lessons.” He let out a humourless laugh. 

“Despite being the youngest Death Eater, I don’t have the particular talent for Dark curses, let alone the Unforgivables. My wand core wasn’t even good for it. Unicorn hair rarely accepts Dark magic. Dear Aunt Bella enjoyed breaking both the wand and myself. We trained endlessly. Learning things that would haunt your dreams. It started on animals. Do you know rabbit screams sound like infants crying?” 

His words had gotten stronger. “I was sick the first time I cast a Cruciatus on a rabbit. It writhed so hard it broke its own back. I threw up on myself right there and my aunt backhanded me for it. She said if I couldn’t handle small animals, I’d never manage the true vermin we were after.” His eyes flitted to her before looking away. “I knew hostages were being brought in. I could hear them screaming during interrogations, but I hadn’t witnessed them yet. My mother convinced my aunt to leave me out until I grew stronger but eventually that stopped working. I was there when Cora and her husband were brought in. He had been splinched trying to Apparate away and was bleeding heavily from his leg. She begged someone to heal him, but nobody would do it. They were taken to the Dungeon and I didn’t see them again until his body was removed. Died of infection. Can you imagine? We had an arsenal of potions that could have healed him almost instantly but why waste resources on animals that were waiting to be slaughtered?”

She felt her nails dig into her palm but didn’t interrupt him. She wasn’t sure she could have with the way the ugly words were forcefully leaving his mouth. “She cried and screamed so loudly I could hear them throughout the Manor. I remember wishing she would stop. I knew it was just bringing more attention to herself, but she wouldn’t. She screamed for hours. Suddenly I was being summoned to join my aunt and I knew what was about to happen. She was in a pile on the floor. Filthy, nearly starved and battered. I almost didn’t recognise her.” 

His hand squeezed painfully into her wrist. “I had only cast the Cruciatus a few times on a person before. Never very strong which was a constant disappointment to Bellatrix.” His voice began to shake. “She commanded me to cast it. I tried and the witch barely moved. Bellatrix decided I needed motivation. She would cast a slicing hex on her for every attempt I made that didn’t elicit what she considered to be a proper response. She knew I didn’t have the stomach for blood or torture. I knew if I could just cast one good Cruciatius she would stop hacking away at her. I focused all of my hatred for my home, my life, my role in that damn war and finally was able to cast a full Cruciatus. She bowed so hard off the floor I was terrified she would snap her spine like the rabbit. I ended it a few seconds later. Bella was so excited she didn’t even notice.” 

He had begun to tremble, and Hermione felt her stomach rolling. “Greyback showed up a few moments later, drawn to the blood.” Hermione’s stomach dropped, the cold burn of horror filling her chest. “She was hurt and exhausted and had no information about The Order. She hadn’t been a member, just a witch trying to flee with her Muggleborn husband. Greyback asked if he could play with her. He licked the blood off her cheek.” 

He shuddered, the revulsion evident in his voice. “I knew how Greyback liked to play. I heard the screams in the copse of trees next to the gardens at night. Bellatrix said he could have her but she needed to discuss an upcoming raid with him. She told me to guard the witch, as if she could have moved or done anything. When they left to consult Rowle, the witch just stared at me.”

He was shaking harder now, his teeth chattering as if cold had consumed him. “She had these massive brown eyes. I tried to ignore the pleading look she gave me. I heard footsteps and I held my wand up and before I knew it, I cast the Killing Curse for the first and last time. I didn’t know if it would work. I had only successfully cast it on animals before, but somehow it did. You need mean it with the Killing Curse or else it won’t do anything. I don’t know why I did it. I didn’t know her. People were being tortured and killed daily and I hadn’t tried to stop it. All I could think of is I didn’t want her to be torn to shreds by Greyback. When Bella and the wolf came back, he was livid. Tried to lunge at me but Bella stopped him quite viciously. She was so ecstatic she kissed my cheek and smiled in that maniacal way of hers.” 

He looked at Hermione’s face. “I should have told you. You asked me about the Applebys and their daughter and I just froze. I knew you would leave me. How could you stay? I’m a murderer. I couldn’t have killed her unless I wanted to, unless I meant it.” 

The last sentence came out in a gasp. “I tricked you and I trapped you. I know it. I’ve known it this entire time and I still did it, still married you, still touched you because I’m a coward. I’m a monster.” He shuddered, a tear trailing down his face. “No, not a monster. I’m a Malfoy. It’s in my blood.” 

His face scrunched and he began to sob. He held her hand like it was the last thing tethering them together. 

Biting her lip, Hermione bid her tears to hold off but they trickled down her cheeks anyway. She gently pulled her hand back and he yelped, reaching out but not allowing his skin to touch hers. He cried even harder at the loss of connection. She sat up and scooted until she was leaning against the headboard. His arms had wrapped around himself now as he laid on his side, sobbing. 

She pulled his head into her lap, feeling his hair tickle the bare skin of her legs. He scrambled to hold on to her knees, her calves, her sleep shorts, anything to be connected to her once more as he shook. She ran her fingers through his short hair and rubbed his back, attempting to soothe him, to prove she was still there.

His gasping began to slow down as she whispered to him to breathe. Finally, he laid against her wet legs calmly, a slight rattle with each heavy breath. She spoke when he finally seemed steady. 

“It worked because you wanted her to die but not because you wanted her dead. She wasn’t going to make it out. You couldn’t save her, but you had the power to stop her suffering and you did.” 

“I wasn’t brave. I never even considered trying to get her out.”

“Sometimes bravery is doing something awful but necessary.”

“You always do the brave thing. The thing that saves people.” She felt his words whispered against her skin. 

She hesitated for a moment. “I Obliviated my parents.” He didn’t move or say anything, but she felt his breathing hitch for a moment. “Before I went on the run. I knew they would be targets and would be completely defenceless. I hadn’t even told them that a war was coming. So, I went home and spent two weeks soaking in every interaction while preparing and planning. I erased myself from every photo, every moment, everything. I upended their entire life, took their daughter from them and gave them a new life in Australia. They had mentioned wanting to visit before. I thought I could at least give them that bit of themselves.” 

“Where are they now?” He didn’t turn to ask his question. 

“In Australia. I- I went back after the war. I went to their practice, ready to reverse it all. I was so excited but then I saw them. They were happy. Their Dentistry was thriving. My dad had a tan and my mum had grown her hair out longer than I had ever seen it. They were compelled by the charm to change their name from Granger to Wilkins. Monica and Wendell Wilkins, British expats enjoying the beautiful sun and surf of Australia.”

“You’re their daughter.” 

“They would never trust me. I took away their life, their identity. Even Harry and Ron were horrified. They could barely look me in the eyes when I told them. My parents would see a monster.” She was whispering. 

“You didn’t take their lives, you saved them. Potter and Weasley had the luxury of judgement because it wasn’t a choice they had to make. It’s easy to point fingers when it's not your loved ones at risk.” 

Hermione hastily wiped away the tears that had slid down her cheek. It was the first time someone had said anything remotely close to consoling her. Normally people stared at her with open horror, shocked over the decision she had made, especially at such a young age. 

“Thank you. That was kind.” She fought her lips from turning downward. 

“I’m not trying to be kind. I’m just trying to be more truthful.” He paused for a moment. “Do you think you’ll ever try to reach out to them again?”

She shook her head before remembering he still wasn’t facing her. “I’m not sure. It’s been so long at this point I’m not sure which would be crueller. They can’t miss what they don’t remember.”

“But you remember.” His voice was so quiet she almost didn’t hear him. 

“It’s my burden to bear.” 

He hummed thoughtfully. “I'm sure they miss you. Maybe they don’t quite remember what they are missing, but it’s there, somewhere in their souls.” 

Hermione didn't want to discuss this anymore. It felt like she had ripped the scab off of a healing wound and even the breeze from his words stung against it. 

“Are you wearing the same clothes you left in?” Her question seemed to provide enough distraction and he turned his head to stare at her, his cheeks flushing. “And did you arrive shoeless last night?” 

He looked away. “I got your message and panicked. I thought if you were calling me back it was surely for an emergency.”

“You weren’t planning on returning? Even knowing they would send you to Azkaban?” She still didn’t quite believe what Theo had told her. 

“You told me to leave. It's your home. It’s where you feel safe. I wanted to make sure that you kept that.” 

“Why do you care?” 

He didn’t reply. His eyes, silver and bright and unguarded, held hers. They didn’t shift, didn’t falter, just silently bore into her own. No words were offered. She felt raw and dissected under his gaze.

She reached down and traced his jaw with his fingers. He shut his eyes briefly at the contact and then fluttered them open once more. 

“Can I please come home?” His question was quiet and hesitant.

Was this also his home? They both had referred to it as such. Hermione thought back to the pervasive emptiness that seemed to have touched every part of the cottage since he had left. 

“No more lying.” She held his face still, trying to convey her seriousness in the touch. “I can’t do this if you keep lying to me.”

His lip gave an almost inperceivable twitch that was gone a moment later. “No more lying.” His agreement was steady and sure. 

She slowly leaned down and allowed her lips to graze his, the rough beginnings of a beard scratching against the sensitive skin of her chin. 

The kiss was chaste. If he was disappointed by it, he didn’t let it show. Instead, he sighed against her lips, pulling back to look at her face, following the shape of her hair, wild from sleep, to the freckles that danced across her nose and to her mouth, where they lingered a moment longer. 

“I’m sorry, for it all.” He rubbed her cheek with his rough thumb. “For what I said, how I acted. It was unfair. I felt caught and instead of just talking to you, I lashed out.” His thumb stopped its gentle workings. “I’m trying to unlearn a lifetime of rubbish. It’s not an excuse or your responsibility to lead me through it. I’m working on it. I promise.”

The apology was a surprise. 

She had learned at a young age not to expect immediate apologies from the men in her life. Harry and Ron could hold grudges with the best of them. They came around to it eventually but not without a fair bit of needling from the other. 

“You were right.” she whispered. “About me having a foot out the door. After the war, after losing Fred, nearly losing Harry, my parents…” she trailed off for a moment. “I didn’t know if I wanted to let anyone new in. I wasn’t sure I could risk another person that I could lose. I never thought I’d have to. I had assumed that I’d end up with Ron, but it never– I didn’t expect you.”

“Hermione…” 

“No, let me finish. Please.”

She inhaled. “I’ve always relied on being perfect. In school, at my work, I’ve had to fight twice as hard to be taken seriously in the wizarding world. Truthfully, I’m scared. I’m always scared. I’m scared of failing, of disappointing people, of losing people and I’m scared of people recognising just how scared I am. So, I pushed you away. Because if you didn’t get close, you wouldn’t see how imperfect the Golden Girl is. I don’t know what I’m doing here. I don’t have all the answers.”

The room was silent. Seconds ticked by and Hermione felt her cheeks burn as they did. 

Finally, he spoke. “I didn’t marry the Golden Girl. I married Hermione Granger. I don’t need you to be perfect. I just need you to be you, with me.”

She wanted to sob at the words. 

She wasn’t sure if it was his unguarded stare or the pressure of his skin against hers or finally being rested, but she found herself only able to nod in response. 

He gave her a crooked smile before stretching his limbs above him. “That’s the best sleep I’ve had in a few days.” 

“Nott Manor didn’t provide the expected luxury of a fellow heir?”

He barked out a laugh. “Tippi tried her hardest but imagining my impending divorce made the stay a little lacklustre. Theo was thoroughly exasperated with me. I may have drunk some very expensive firewhisky and been a general menace in the gardens.”

She frowned, staring at the cut on his lip. “Do you still have the salve?” 

He smiled sheepishly. “I left it here, but I’ll apply some now.” He shuffled out of the bed and left the room, leaving the door opened. Hermione stretched her own limbs and walked to splash her face and brush her teeth, then headed towards the kitchen. She heard the lavatory door click shut in the hall as she prepared tea and began making breakfast. It was already midday, but she had barely eaten since their fight.

When Malfoy entered the kitchen, he was showered and shaved, wearing grey trackies and a white cotton shirt. He looked refreshed and more like himself than he had done an hour prior. He stood next to the table, almost hesitant to sit down. His hands kept fidgeting with the hem of his shirt. He stayed like that until Hermione plated the food. He sat down and began to pick at his plate after a quick thanks. 

Hermione was finishing her eggs in large bites, when he cleared his throat. Looking up, she saw the apprehension on his pink stained face. She looked at him quizzically, not understanding where the air of nervousness was coming from. 

“I don’t want you to think I’m doing this as a way to make amends for how I acted or to ingratiate myself to you.” 

She cocked her head to the side questioningly. He took a deep breath and reached his hands into his pocket. His long fingers pulled out something that twinkled. Taking another deep breath, he set the object on the wood next to her. 

It was a ring. 

A beautiful ring.

A beautiful diamond ring.

Hermione stared at the large oval diamond. She knew nothing about cut or quality, but she knew this diamond was large. It was nestled in gold prongs that secured the stone to a gold band. The band was made of braided gold, tiny diamonds glimmered from the weaving. 

“I got this when I visited my vaults.”

She continued to stare. 

“I thought since we’re married, you should have a ring.” His finger nervously drummed against the table.

“They took possession of a fair few heirlooms, but there were still a few pieces left. It’s not the most extravagant ring, but I didn’t think you would want that anyways. If you don’t like it, we can pick out another. Of course, that’s if you want a ring. You don’t have to wear a ring. It’s not about me staking my claim over you or anything like that. I just want you to have the option” He rambled while continuing to tap his fingers.

Seeing that she still hadn’t moved, he reached for the ring. “I’m sorry, it was presumptuous of me to think you would want a reminder of this entire ordeal.” He moved to shove the piece back into his pocket, but Hermione shot her hand out to stop him. He froze under her touch.

Without saying a word, she reached her left hand out towards him, fingers splayed. He stared at her hand. Flicking up to look at her face, he nervously exhaled before slowly picking the ring up. The diamond caught the afternoon light, throwing rainbows around the kitchen. His hands shook gently, reminding her of when they had exchanged vows in a cramped Azkaban office. He slipped the ring onto her finger, sliding it gently passed her knuckle. The metal warmed before resizing to fit her perfectly. 

Somehow the metal encircling her finger felt more meaningful than the nearly imperceptible chain that wrapped around her wrist and hand. She took in the glint of gold and diamonds against her skin.

“Should we stop referring to each other by our surnames now?” She glanced up at him and caught the boyish grin.  

“I’m not sure I can give up calling you Granger.”

“It’s not even my last name technically.”

“You’ll always be Granger to me.” 

She felt the warmth rush up her neck. “Does that mean I should continue to call you Malfoy then?” 

He shook his head slightly. “I’m rather fond of you calling me Draco. That name is mine alone.” 

“Draco.” His name felt foreign against her tongue. As if she had cast a spell with the name, his pupils expanded, and his mouth opened ever so slightly. 

“I want to go out.” The words burst from his mouth with such force that she nearly flinched back. “I mean with you. Outside. Somewhere Muggle. I’m not picky.”

“You want to go outside with me?” Her question made him turn a deep red. 

“I would like to spend an evening out with you.”

“Out? Like a date?”

He squirmed in his chair. “It doesn’t have to be anything so formal or serious. Even if it’s just out to a pub for a drink. We haven’t been out like normal people together in a while. I’d like to spend time with you where I’m not Draco Malfoy, the most hated wizard in Britain and you aren’t Hermione Granger, war heroine. I want to be just Draco and you can be just Granger. Just us.”

“Just us.” 

“That would be nice. Should we go tonight?”

He grinned. “You’re the one with a job. My schedule is very open. Perks of having an inheritance.”

She rolled her eyes. “I think I can pencil you in.” She thought for a moment. “Somewhere around here?”

“Ben mentioned a pub in London he likes. I thought maybe we could chance it.” The hopefulness in his face nudged Hermione to agree. 

She excused herself to get ready, needing a few moments to collect herself. 

For all the moments that had shifted the dynamic of their relationship, this conversation was the one that Hermione couldn’t explain away, couldn’t reason with herself.

Hermione could deny it no longer. 

Despite all of the guarding, second-guessing and general resistance she had put up for herself and others, she had to admit that she felt something beyond pity or curiosity for her husband. 

She had feelings for Malfoy, and she didn’t know where that left her. 

~~

She stepped out of her room, heart beating faster as she made her way to him. The sun was sinking lower in the sky, throwing light around the cottage. Hermione found him predictably reading on the sofa, knee bouncing. 

Hearing her footsteps, his head shot up. “You look beautiful.”

She felt a tingle up her spine as she thumbed the ring on her finger behind her back. “Where are we headed tonight?”

Snapping the book shut, he stood. He had also changed for the evening into light grey trousers and an off-white button down. “The White Queen. It’s in Hampstead.” 

“We can Apparate.”

“That would be ideal unless you also have an Invisibility Cloak.”

Hermione took a deep breath as they stepped out of the cottage, taking in the warmed air and the smell of grass. She closed her eyes as a cool breeze blew open the cardigan she wore over her white sundress. Small flowers travelled down the material, the blue of them less vibrant in the waning light. When she turned to look at him he was staring at her, the corner of his mouth lifting slightly. 

“What?” 

He shook his head, the remaining sunlight glinting off of his blonde hair. “Nothing. Come on.” He grabbed her hand and gently tugged her just through the gate. 

“Ready?” He turned back to face her, hand still tightly grasped in hers. 

“Yes. Let’s go.” Making sure not to loosen her grip on him, she Apparated them behind a small bakery she had visited a few times. She tried to pull her hand from his, but his fingers tightened and he began to walk with her in tow until they were on the street.

“I don’t think it’s very far from here. Ben said it was near Heath Street and Church Row so we should find it if we just keep walking.” She looked at the nearby signs and realised that she had Apparated them just a few blocks away.

Now satisfied that they weren’t going to wander in the dark, she allowed him to lead her down the pavement. His hand was warm in her palm, and she felt his thumb swipe against the band of her ring. That familiar tension that seemed to build when she was near him was steadily growing as she felt the material of his shirt brush against her skin. 

When she wasn’t sure she could stand another brush, he stopped them in front of a pub. Gold letters in Old English script read The White Queen. He let go of her hand while pulling the heavy wooden door and motioned for her to enter. The pub was filled with olive green leather booths and the bar was made of deep coloured wood with windowed glass lining it. Patrons sat at the bar and in the booths. The sounds of conversation and glasses clinking rang throughout the evening lit room. 

“Pick where you’d like to sit. I can go grab drinks. What would you like?” 

“Um, white wine?” 

He nodded and turned to head towards the bar. 

“Wait, don’t you need money?” She began to reach into her small handbag but he waved her off. 

“No need. I’ve got it.” He left, leaving Hermione worried he was going to leave a stack of Galleons on the bar top. 

She nervously looked around before slipping into a nearby booth. The green upholstery was cold against her back. A moment later Draco returned, carrying a pint and a glass of chilled white wine. He smoothly pulled out his chair and sat, sliding her glass towards her. 

“I can’t verify how good that vintage will be but it’s alcoholic.” 

She took the glass from him before taking a sip. It was crisp and very faintly sweet. After he took a long draw from his own glass, she asked what had been on her mind. 

“Did you pay with Muggle money?”

He rolled his eyes. “No, I traded a small Ukrainian Firebelly egg for these.”

“I can’t imagine where you were hiding that,” she retorted, pretending to search his body and earning a faint blush as he sipped his beer.

He paused for just a moment before licking the remnants off his lips. “I made sure to exchange some at Gringotts. We live in such close proximity to a Muggle town. I figured it would be good to have it available.” His answer was smooth and logical. 

She felt the tension in her shoulders ease slightly. “Of course, that was a smart decision.”

“A little testy, are we, Granger? Afraid I’m going to break the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy over some subpar ale and cheap wine?”

“You very well could for all I know.”

He snorted. “I have been around Muggles before and lived to tell the tale.”

She cocked her head. “Really? When?”

Her question once more made him pause. His finger tapped against the word grain of the wooden table before he picked his glass up. “Here and there. Even for a wealthy Pureblood it’s nearly impossible not to come across Muggles at some point. I visited the Zabini vineyards and the small village nearby was Muggle so we spent a night or two at a small establishment there.”

Hermione quirked her brow. “How positively scandalous. I wonder what the Sacred Twenty-Eight would think of one of their own mingling with Muggles?”

“What they don’t know can’t hurt them.” A strange look passed over his features for a fleeting moment before a self-deprecating smile took over. “Not that they think much of me anymore. Turns out they can overlook genocide, but bad press is a step too far. Good riddance to them anyways.” He held his glass out to hers and took a large gulp.

Hermione could at least agree with that statement. The wine wasn’t terrible and helped to temper her nerves. They continued to drink and talked about safer topics such as Pansy’s new renovations of her flat and their favourite school subjects. After another drink, they were laughing and enjoying each other's company.

“Potions, easily. It was one of the truly worthwhile lessons.”

“You just liked that you got special treatment!”

He gave her an obvious stare. “Of course I liked the special treatment, it’s what I thrive on. Anyways it’s not like I received any special treatment from Slughorn. That man barely looked at me let alone complimented my nearly perfect brews. Nobody could outshine The Chosen One.”

Hermione groaned. “Don't get me started on that class. That blasted book was the bane of my existence.”

“What book?”

She quickly pressed her lips together, not sure how to respond.

“Oi! Blondie!” 

Hermione looked over to an older man with a creased face and greying sandy blonde hair. His cheeks were ruddy as he smiled jovially at them. 

“It’s been a minute since I’ve seen you!”

Draco raised a brow at the man. “I’m sorry, have we met before?”

The man laughed. “It’s old Leonard! Fancy seeing you here. Though perhaps not since The King’s been out of commission. No idea what happened there, just have the entire thing blocked off, won’t let a soul inside.”

Hermione felt her face scrunch in confusion. The man obviously felt like he knew Draco.

“I’m sorry, Leonard, you must have confused me with someone else.” Draco smiled good naturedly. “I’ve been told I have a face for fame. Maybe I remind you of someone but unfortunately we’ve never met. Can I buy you a pint to make a proper introduction?”

The man’s eyes gleamed as he agreed enthusiastically. “Right, right, that must be it. My eyes aren’t what they used to be.” He smiled at Hermione. “Sorry to bother you. Congratulations on your nuptials. Have a good night.”

Draco led the man to the bar where they chatted until the barkeep handed the older gentleman an overflowing glass. Draco patted him on the shoulder and made his way back. 

“Well, that was odd.”

Draco waved his hand. “Seemed to be a bit of a sot. Maybe it’s a ploy to get free drinks but I wouldn’t doubt the poor fool really gets lost in his own glass fairly regularly.” 

The explanation made sense, but something struck her. 

“I wonder how he knew we were recently married? We never mentioned it.”

Draco’s brows furrowed for a moment before smoothing out. “Probably saw the way I’ve been gawking at you the entire evening. That dress is very becoming.” 

He eyed her appreciatively before resting his chin in his hand. “Also, while that might be one of the more modest rings in my vaults, it is still fairly conspicuous, especially against your dainty fingers. It was probably a lucky guess.” 

While he spoke, his free hand began to trace down her exposed arm towards said fingers. Hermione’s skin prickled at his touch. She pressed her thighs together with the sudden heaviness she felt between her legs at the flirtatious words and simple touch. It was unbelievably disarming.

“Would you like another drink or would you like to get out of here?” His eyes had darkened, and the soft gas lamps of the pub made his hair glow and accentuated the shadows of his sharp face. 

Hermione felt her heart skip a beat. “I’m properly quenched I think.” 

Without further discussion, he stood and walked their empty glasses to the bar before leaving some bills on the top. 

Hermione met him at the door. He placed his warm hand against her lower back before opening the door. She expected him to lead her down the pavement once more but felt him veer down the side alley. 

“Draco—” before she could finish her sentence, she felt him push her against the brick wall. His body was pressed flush against hers as his mouth began sucking on the sensitive skin of her neck. The entire affair caught her off guard, but she moaned as he nipped gently on her collarbone. 

“I’ve been wanting to do this the entire night.” His breath caressed her skin, sending shivers up her spine and across her scalp. “I want to try something.”

She had no capability for words but felt her head move up and down as he rocked into her with his hips. She felt him slowly inch the fabric of her dress up the sides of her thighs. Once the material was around her hips, she felt the warm air against her flesh. Suddenly she was reminded that they were in a very public place.

“Draco we can’t—” Her words were more of a gasp as he rubbed her over her knickers. “People… people could see…” she cut off as he slipped his fingers into her wet folds, circling the spot he knew undid her. 

“This alleyway is barely used; nobody will see us.” It did look rather deserted. No lights illuminated the dark outdoor corridor. “We can stop if you would like but we won’t be caught.” The tip of his finger dipped inside her, twisting slightly. She felt her hands clamp onto his arms as she moaned out loud. 

“Do you want me to stop?” He paused his delicate, allowing her to gather herself. His breath smelled of wheat and alcohol as it blew against her face. She knew she should say no but that building pressure was back as he stared down at her. It felt like the air between them could combust at any moment and she knew she held the match. 

“No.” 

He needed nothing else before he slid down to his knees before her. He still held her dress gathered in one hand, and he used his other, still slick with her, to draw her knickers down. She allowed him to pull them past her feet before pocketing them. When she was bare before him, he ran his nose up her inner thigh.

“I’ve never done this before, so please tell me if I’m doing it wrong.” 

That’s the only warning he gave her before she felt his tongue lap against her folds. She bucked her hips in surprise, causing him to use both hands to hold her in place against his waiting mouth. Without any preamble, he began sucking and licking, focusing his attention on her bundle of nerves. She moaned loudly, trying to balance herself against the rough brick at her back. 

Draco pulled back, the moonlight catching against the glint of wetness that coated his chin. “Nobody can see us but they can hear us. I don’t mind even a bit, but you may feel differently.” 

With that he dropped her dress back down around him. She felt him spread her lips before blowing cool air against her clit. She bit her tongue to stop from crying out. He continued to suck and nibble before pushing a long finger inside of her. As he curled his finger, he began mimicking the movements she had given him before with his tongue, moving it in circles around her bud. He had taken in every passing direction from her like a sponge and curiously explored her body with a fervour she had never experienced before. His enthusiasm to learn what she liked, to bring her pleasure, surprised her at every turn.

She had begun to slowly rock against him as the pressure in her body built higher and higher. He had thrown a leg over his shoulders, helping to hold her weight up. Over and over he curled his finger in a beckoning motion, hitting a deliciously sensitive spot inside that made her legs shake.

With one deep suck against her clit paired with a firm press into that inner spot, the cord snapped, and she was moaning loudly. The hand that hadn’t been connected to her shot up, muffling her cries as she came around him. 

He allowed her to ride out of the waves of pleasure on him. Even when she was done, he continued to lap at her until her sensitivity was almost painful. He righted her clothes and stood before leaving a searing kiss against her lips that tasted and smelled of her. 

“Now, we can go home.” He smiled and brushed a few curls down on the back of her head. The brick had created a few snags that he smoothed. 

“But you…” she stared down at his tightened trousers. “You didn’t get to last time either.”

He nuzzled his chin against her hair before leading her out of the alley. “It’s not a competition. Though if it was, I think I would be leading.” He grinned before his face became soft. “I did that because I wanted to and I’m thrilled that you wanted me to as well. I'm content to just go home tonight.”

He held her hand once more as they walked down the lit streets. She could have Apparated them back from the alley which would have been the smartest choice. Somewhere in the back of her mind she remembered Hannah’s warning about recent attacks but in the afterglow of her climax with the weight of Draco’s hand in her own, she wanted to drag out the moment as long as possible. 

When they finally did arrive home, she watched as he fed Crookshanks and then shut the lights off in the tiny cottage, the nightly routine looking as comfortable to him as it was to her. 

As she laid in bed with his arms curled around her, she briefly realised that she hadn’t checked her wards or her beaded bag before she had slipped under the duvet. 

The first time in a long while, Hermione felt content to be where she was and be who she was. 

Notes:

Yay! Officially on the final third of the story!

To everyone who is worried it won't be HEA, don't worry, it is. The story is almost completely finished :) I started writing in February. I just update as they are finished being edited.

Rompeprop and noxhunter, ya’ll are the best betas!

This was written on my iPhone while we drove to a wedding. The Passenger Princess strikes again! Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 22

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Days blurred together upon Draco’s return, a week passing before Hermione even realised it. She was busily preparing for the upcoming meeting for the Lycanthropy Wing. She was determined to make sure that every piece of paperwork had been verified, signed and filed. Nothing would be left to chance.

Lupin’s tired smile always entered Hermione’s mind when she found herself feeling frustrated in the laws and the bureaucracy. She was determined to make sure his son didn’t live with the same harsh restrictions and judgements his father had. 

Draco had been supportive as she worked, making sure to give her space to finish what she needed to do. He often visited Theo or his aunt and cousin for the day, returning in the evening with food prepared by Tippi or attempting something himself. At night they wrapped themselves in each other. They debated about books, discussed the five Principal Exceptions of Gamp’s Law, and traded favourite childhood memories. It typically ended in them losing themselves in each other's touch or falling asleep curled around one another. 

Hermione now waited in the hallway outside of a small Wizengamot courtroom. Hannah sat by her side, foot bouncing as her heel clicked against the tiled floor. The meeting had been set for eleven o’clock and it was now nearly twenty minutes past. 

“What’s taking so long?” Hannah muttered while nervously biting her thumb nail. 

“I’m not sure. Hopefully just a member running late?” They both turned towards the sounds of footsteps. 

They stood as the footsteps came closer. As she rounded the corner, Hermione recognised Codsworth’s secretary.

“Ah, Mrs. Malfoy and Miss Abbott, I see nobody informed you of the change of schedule.” 

“What change of schedule, Miss…?” Hermione’s voice was sharp. She knew she shouldn’t shoot the messenger, but she couldn’t claim to be a fan of the witch. 

“It’s Beales. And unfortunately, the meeting to discuss the potential Lupin Lycanthropy Wing has been pushed back.”

Hermione felt the shock on her face. “Pushed until when?”

“There is no current time slot set due to incongruences with Wizengamot members schedules, I’m sure you understand.”

“So, it’s been pushed back indefinitely? Why?” Hannah thankfully was able to ask the question as Hermione felt her jaw momentarily agape. 

“An urgent legal matter requiring the entirety of the Wizengamot. I’m sorry, I simply cannot divulge more information than that.” Miss Beales looked down at her timepiece. “I must be getting back now.” She began to turn.

“Wait! When will we hear about the Wing?”

The witch glanced back at Hermione. “We’ll reach out at some point. Now, I really must be going. Good day.” As quickly as her smart heels brought her, they took her away. 

“I guess it was for something important at least?”

She wanted to both throttle and hug her sweet friend. Trust a Hufflepuff to look for a silver lining. 

“This… I just can’t… yes. I suppose you’re right.” Hermione felt her shoulders pull low in defeat. A week of scrambling and months of waiting had disappeared faster than she could say Evanesco. 

They stood in the hall a moment longer, letting the reality sink in. Finally, they trudged in silence down the stairs that led away from the courtrooms towards the lifts. Hermione bit back frustrated tears as the lift doors opened to the Atrium on the eighth floor. As they walked out, a familiar face stepped out of identical doors next to them. 

“Hannah, Hermione! Fancy seeing you here.” Lee Jordan grinned. Taking in their dour expressions, his grin quickly disappeared. “What’s the matter with you two?”

Hannah smiled sadly at him. “Sorry, Lee, it’s wonderful to see you. We just both got some rather frustrating news about a project we had been working on.”

He nodded understandingly. “I’m sorry to hear that.”

“What are you doing at the Ministry today?” Hermione's voice sounded thin. 

“Oh, I was just filing for a new patent. Something Dean and I have been working on. I’m heading over to the Leaky to meet him for an early lunch. Would you two be interested in going?”

“I wish I could, but I really better be getting back to St. Mungos. I need to look over some charts before this afternoon.”

Lee turned his attention to Hermione. “What do you say?”

She was supposed to have been gone for the next hour. Draco would be spending the day with Teddy and wouldn’t be home until this evening. The idea of wallowing alone didn’t sound particularly pleasant to Hermione.

“You know what, that sounds perfect.”

Bidding farewell to Hannah, Lee and Hermione entered a Floo and arrived in a familiar large fireplace located in the Leaky Cauldron. Dean was waiting at a table when they arrived.

“Hermione, what a wonderful surprise!” 

She gave her friend a quick kiss on his cheek and sat down, wondering if it was too early in the morning to get absolutely smashed. Blessedly, Lee seemed to read her mind as he ordered beers for the table. 

Hermione was happily sipping the frothy liquid when Dean cleared his throat. “I suppose I should say congratulations, though I must admit to being rather surprised that you got married.”

“And only slightly offended that we weren’t invited to the wedding.” Lee winked at Hermione.

“There wasn’t a big affair. Just the officiant, a few witnesses, an army of Aurors and a rather miserable Wizengamot member.”

“Oh, I don’t know, sounds pretty fairytale to me.” Dean laid a gentle hand against his heart dramatically. “Draco Malfoy wouldn’t have been the first Prince Charming I would have picked, though.”

Hermione expected to feel the sting of shame like she had when this had come up before but was surprised to find herself more annoyed than anything else. “He’s changed a lot since you last talked with him.”

“Seeing as I haven’t talked to him since we were fifteen, I should hope so.” It wasn’t nasty, just matter-of-factly. 

“You don’t think I’m mad for doing it?” Hermione asked in a playful manner, but she was curious about the answer. While it wouldn’t make a difference, it felt important considering the changes her, and Draco’s relationship had taken. 

“Mad? Oh, I have no doubt you’re barmy, but I don’t think it’s a bad thing. Honestly, I’m happy to see you take a risk for yourself instead of for others.”

A server interrupted the conversation to take their orders. When he had them, his gaze lingered for a moment at Hermione.

“News is already diverting away from you.” She turned to Lee. “The papers have been focusing on some Wizengamot meeting.”

Hermione had been so wrapped up in work and lost in a certain blonde wizard the past few days, she hadn’t read the paper. Now that she thought back to it, the Atrium had been emptied of errant journalists looking for their latest story about her marriage. She had missed it in the wake of the cancelled meeting. 

“The Ministry will be in a tizzy for a while, I’m sure. I wonder how long the patent will take this time.” 

“What patent?” Hermione asked Dean. 

The two wizards had started a small business selling tinkered gramophones that played Muggle music, selling out of Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes. As years had passed, they had added to their line and gained a substantial following with hopes of opening a shop in Diagon where they would sell magical music playing devices that merged Muggle and Wizarding worlds.

“We finally perfected a magical portable CD player that can be used without electricity or batteries. We think it could even be used at Hogwarts.”

“If McGonagall would ever let us test,” Lee cut in, “which she won’t unless we get a legal patent.”

“That’s wonderful! I know you both have been working on that for quite some time.”

Dean gave a disgruntled look. “Only problem is it’s a gamble whenever we apply for a patent.”

Hermione frowned. “What do you mean?”

The wizard took a long sip of beer before continuing. “We have been denied patents before with what I’d consider to be very shaky reasons for refusal. Basically, saying that the “unverified Muggle technology” could be dangerous. Which is ridiculous. Our products run on magic; we just take inspiration from how Muggle products are more accessible.” He eyed Lee quickly before returning to Hermione. “We’ve also had some issues with getting a patent approved if my name is on it at all. It was denied last time, but when Lee filed alone, they passed it. We think it’s because I’m Muggleborn.”

Hermione felt aghast but Lee continued where Dean had stopped. “You know how we have wanted to open our own shop?” Hermione nodded, a sinking idea of where this was going. “Well, we’ve had the funds ready for ages, but can’t seem to land on a lease. We’ve put in a few offers, some storefronts are still empty since the war, but it never gets approved once they realise what we sell.”

She felt that sudden familiar weight in her chest. “Dennis is facing the same issue with his art gallery.” 

They both nodded grimly. 

“I’m so sorry, that’s awful.” Knowing what it felt like to be snubbed for your blood, she meant every word.

“It is what it is. We won’t give up of course, it’s just a bump in the road. You’ll see Jordan & Thomas’ Audible Extravaganza opening before you know it.” 

Their food arrived shortly after, all worries of the day lost in drinks and good company. 

~~

When she arrived at the cottage, she was slightly tipsy. It was still early, and she knew Draco wouldn’t be home for a few hours at least. His relationship with Andromeda and Teddy had blossomed, albeit awkwardly. He often mentioned how sticky Teddy could be at random, lamenting the lack of ability to cast a Scourgify. “I was never that sticky as a child, so you can’t blame it on gender or a family trait.”

He also groaned about the odd chore his aunt often roped him into. “Honestly at this point I’m considering offering to provide them with a House Elf. Oh, don’t look at me like that Granger, the elf would be fairly compensated.”

Even so, he visited regularly, coming home with scraps of parchment with childish drawings, once even a paper crown on his head. “Ugly thing, I only wore it so Teddy wouldn’t cry. I meant to toss it into the fire when I got home.” Only he hadn’t. Each drawing or homemade art project was tucked carefully into his pocket before being whisked away to his room. 

Every time she caught the corner of his mouth turning upwards as he shared the latest ridiculous question or statement the young boy had offered; she felt a strange sensation that one could almost akin to a Cornish pixie going haywire in her stomach.

The Floo rang out. Having sat on the sofa with the intention of reading, Hermione tossed the book aside. 

When Harry walked through, she felt her face drop ever so slightly.

“Harry, what brings you here?” Her friend stepped into the sitting room and gave her his classic sheepish smile. 

“Hi, Hermione, sorry to just drop in. You busy?”

She shook her head and motioned for him to sit. “No, I had some work at the Ministry, but it was cut short.”

Harry flinched slightly. “Yes… I know. That’s why I’m here.”

He was staring down at his hands.

“What’s the matter, Harry?”

He lifted his glasses and rubbed his eyes before setting them once more against the bridge of his nose. “I’m not sure if you’ve seen anything in the papers about the Wizengamot going over some laws?”

“I heard about it today. What’s that got to do with my meeting being cancelled?”

Harry finally looked into her eyes; his lips pulled down into a grimace. “The law being voted on was the Gallows Marriage Law. That was the only item on the docket for the emergency session. They overturned it today.” Hermione felt her heart thump loudly in her chest. “I just found out about it thirty minutes ago and left when I had the chance.”

“Is that why you’re here? They can’t take him back. They can overturn the law all they want, but they can’t take him back.” Panic roiled through her.

“No, I don’t think they hold that power. He was given a stay legally and can still be pardoned as long as he abides by the stipulations. They just aren’t allowing it to be used anymore. I wanted you to be told in person instead of the paper.” He peered at her before slowly sitting into an armchair. “I’m sorry, I didn’t realise you would be so affected.”

“It was just a bit of a shock.”

His piercing green eyes surveyed her tensed posture. “I know it’s not any of my business—”

“You’re right, it’s not any of your business.” Her sharp words and the stern look she sent him caused his mouth to pop open and his eyes fill with surprise. “It’s between me and my husband.” She wasn’t sure what came over her, but she refused to recant. 

Harry sighed, sitting back in the chair. “You’re right. Sorry. I’m a little tired.”

She felt her annoyance lower a notch. “Is it work? The case you mentioned?”

He ran a hand through his shaggy hair, a fruitless attempt to flatten some rogue strays that stuck up. “Yes, the Muggle case. There was a recent escalation.”

“Escalation? I thought the victims were already being beaten to death. How could it have escalated?”

Harry looked around the room, as if checking for hidden ears. 

“Draco isn’t here if that’s what you’re wondering.”

He lowered his voice. “There was another victim, but he wasn’t beaten this time. Other than some bloody knuckles there wasn’t anything physically wrong with him besides being dead.”

“The Killing Curse?”

He nodded glumly. “The first case that clearly shows Wizarding activity. I was so sure Robards had lost the plot insisting that we investigate, but he ended up being right. Goes to show why he’s the Head of the DMLE. When I asked him about why we would investigate Muggle attacks, he said it was intuition”

“Are Muggle murders not worth the time?” 

He winced. “No, no that’s not it. I just meant that we investigate crimes that Muggles don’t even know are happening. It’s easier to split the work so there aren’t any gaps but Robards is right. It’s important to keep up with Muggle affairs and this opened my eyes to that.”

His words were genuine, but it still irked her that even her closest friend, someone who had been raised Muggle, had pushed aside any concern for the non-magical community as a whole. 

“Where is Malfoy anyways? Or should I say Draco?”

She ignored his pointed look. “Spending time with Andromeda and Teddy.”

“Oh, yes. I’ve heard about that recent development.”

“Harry, they are some of his only family left.”

He groaned. “I know, I know. Believe me, I was none too pleased when I first heard that they were spending time together, but he doesn’t seem to be the worst influence.”

“What, no hand drawn Dark Mark for Teddy?” she drawled.

“Not funny. No, other than being a white blonde more often than I’d like, Teddy seems to be happy to have someone to play with. Apparently, he spends a lot of time helping him with flying and teaching him chess. I’m rather surprised that Malfoy puts up with him. He doesn’t strike me as the type to do well with children.”

“I think it’s fair to say we have all been a little surprised by him.”

“Some more than others, maybe.”

“Well, it’s been lovely talking to you, Harry, but I’m sure you have important work to be getting back to, what with being the Chosen One and all.” She stood to mark the end of his visit.

“You know, I think you’ve been spending too much time with the Ferret, I swear I can hear his snarky voice coming out of your mouth.”

“Oh no, this snark is entirely my own.” She grinned as he walked to the Floo.

“You should come by Grimmauld sometime. Both of you.”

She blinked in surprise at her friend. “Oh. Okay, sure. I’ll talk to Draco.”

He stepped into the Floo and was gone. 

She had just entered the kitchen to make some tea when the Floo roared to life for the second time that day. 

“Did you forget something, Har—”

Narcissa Malfoy stared back at her.

“Mrs. Malfoy.” 

Narcissa took in the room around her, her long pale silver robes swishing as she stepped into the sitting room. 

“My apologies for the intrusion, Ms. Granger, but you haven’t replied to my Owls.”

“I’m not sure what you’re referring to. I haven’t received any Owls.”

Narcissa smiled prettily. “I should have known. Draco told me you were uninterested in meeting me so soon, something about your work being taxing as of late. I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised that he intercepted my direct letters to you. He can be quite sneaky.”

“Is there a reason for your visit, Mrs. Malfoy?”

“Can’t one simply want to enjoy the company of their daughter-in-law?”

Hermione bit her cheek to keep from laughing. “Of course. I’ve just made some tea. Would you like a cup?”

“That would be lovely.” The face the witch made clearly indicated it was anything but lovely, but she floated gracefully behind Hermione, nonetheless. 

“Your home is so… rustic. I won’t lie, I was a little taken aback when he mentioned you two would be staying even after he gained access to his vaults. I understand not wanting to live at the Manor.” Her eyes shot to Hermione. “Who wants to live with their mother in-law? But I thought surely, he would have wanted something more spacious after his confinement.”

Hermione loudly clanked the teapot on the table. “He hasn’t voiced any interest to me if he had the inclination.”

The older witch hummed as she sat. When Hermione handed her a mug, she hesitated to reach for it. When her hands finally made contact with the stoneware, her lip curled slightly. She set it down without taking a sip. 

“Draco hasn’t visited for quite some time. He was visiting fairly regularly before but seems to be rather busy as of late. The only recent guests I’ve had have been Ministry officials stopping by to verify that I am indeed behaving myself.”

“He spends much of his time at Nott Manor.”

Her cool expression warmed minutely. “I’m happy he is visiting with his usual friends. I was worried at first. He seemed very lost. His behaviour lately, while understandable for the circumstances, has been concerning.”

“I heard about his escapades at Malfoy Manor. It was rather difficult to witness, especially that time he came back so hurt.”

Narcissa sharply turned her head to Hermione, blonde brows pulled tightly. “Pardon?”

Hermione stared back, just as confused as Narcissa appeared. “You know, when he injured himself in the garden?”

The older witch’s brows stayed furrowed a moment longer and then smoothed, understanding filling her eyes. “Of course, how could I have forgotten? Our marble stairs leading to the lower gardens can become very slick with the rain and can be difficult to navigate.”

Hermione’s stomach filled with dread. “Right, I’m sure. He has mentioned how beautiful your gardens are. I hear you have very rare cultivars. Do you happen to own a Venomous Tentacula? I’ve always been very interested in seeing a larger specimen.”

“Oh no, ghastly things. I know they have important properties, but they are horrid to look at.” 

Hermione pursed her lips. 

Draco had lied about getting hurt in an attempt to flee the plant. She wanted to question Narcissa more, but the witch beat her to it.

“Ms. Granger, may I be frank with you about the purpose of my visit?”

Hermione tightened her hands into a fist. “Of course.”

The woman sat tall in the chair; her chin angled just high enough that she had to look down her nose. “Your intentions for this marriage were very clear last we met. I want to make sure it hasn’t changed.”

Hermione didn’t like where this conversation was headed, but her mother-in-law continued. “Draco might be twenty-three, but his life was effectively on hold for the past five years. He’s experiencing certain aspects of the world for the first time, and I worry that the situation may become confusing. For you both.” 

She trailed her sight towards the kitchen that surrounded her. “Make no mistake, Ms. Granger. I am happy that my son has found some… companionship during this trying time. As I have stated before, I am eternally grateful for all you have done, but this marriage is nothing but a solution to a problem. That is where it must end.

“As the sole heir of House Malfoy and House Black, there are certain expectations on Draco’s shoulders, and while you are a very capable girl, I’m not sure your upbringing would lend a hand to becoming the proprietor of those titles. Nor do I think you would particularly enjoy it. The pressure would be immense and the scrutiny on someone of your heritage would be almost unfair.” 

She sniffed daintily as her thin mouth morphed into a smile. “I’m thinking of your well-being, dear, as we are family.” The smile lost some of its gleam on the last word. “You will however still leave this union with a sizable income and connections that won’t be easily forgotten so long as Draco remains on the straight path, so I daresay it is an equally beneficial arrangement.”

And there it was. 

She was allowed to be convenient, she was allowed to save Draco, but she was not allowed to ever confuse that with being a true part of his life. She could keep his money and maybe use his family name to pull strings from time to time but nothing more. 

Hermione Granger, wanted by no one. 

“I think you’ve made your opinions very clear, Mrs. Malfoy. I assure you that when the five years are over, I will not hold Draco to anything, including his money. Though it might shock you, I was never after his vaults.”

“Of course, Ms. Granger.” Her eyes flickered to the ring on Hermione’s hand. “I must say that ring looks rather stunning on you. An old Rosier heirloom, brought into the family by my mother. Worth a small fortune.”

Hermione’s cheeks burned at the implication. 

The Floo roared again, and Draco stepped into the kitchen, his shirt and jeans covered in grass stains and dirt. A large boy-ish grin rested on his face. “You should have seen Teddy! His turns are going to be sharp soon.” The moment his eyes met his mother the grin slid off his face and he stiffened.  

“Mother. I was not expecting you today.” His words were careful and tight.

“I thought I’d stop by and I’m glad I did. Ms. Granger here was just informing me that she had a mishap with her mail, and she hadn’t received my invitations.”

“It’s Mrs. Malfoy now, Mother.” He glanced at Hermione. “Or just Hermione.”

“Of course, of course. Please forgive me.” Narcissa stood, her silver robes smoothing without a single crease. “I will be taking my leave. Thank you for being such a gracious host, dear Hermione. I would like to return the favour and invite you both to dinner. Perhaps tomorrow? I simply cannot take no as an answer. It’s high time I got to know you better.”

Hermione’s quick refusal was on her lips but through her periphery, she caught sight of Draco. While still standing erect, his practised face of indifference had changed. His eyes had widened by a fraction and his brows had raised ever so slightly.

A look that could have almost been confused for hopeful. 

The realisation struck her. 

Draco loved his mother. He had never kept that a secret. He had stopped visiting her, had been denying her letters and Hermione had an inkling it had to do with her. Even if the witch was a dozy cow that thinly veiled her prejudice in every word, she was still his family. In five years’ time, Hermione could very well be a stranger to him, but Draco would always have his mother. 

“Mother, I’m actually not sure—”

“We’ll be there.” She wanted to bite her own tongue to stop the acceptance, but it was too late. “Thank you for the invitation. What time?”

Narcissa looked momentarily surprised but quickly regained her regal composure. “Lovely. Shall we say six?” Without confirmation, she floated back to the Floo, taking only a brief moment to pat Draco’s arm cooly. He stood with his hands clasped behind him. 

“We simply must do this again. Perhaps tea at the Manor next, though. The solarium is exquisite and would fit the three of us decidedly more comfortably.” She stepped into the Floo and was gone a moment later. 

Hermione stared at the untouched tea and sighed. “Drink this.” She picked up the mug and handed it forcefully to Draco before slumping into the sofa once more. 

He quickly followed. “I had no idea she would stop by; I swear.”

“I’m aware. She made it very known that you attempted to keep her away.”

“Did she say something? I can’t imagine she visited just to invite us over for dinner.” He anxiously held the mug to his chest with both hands. 

“Nothing I wouldn’t expect from her. She wanted to make sure I was aware of the expiration date of this marriage and the duties that accompany becoming Mrs. Malfoy. I got the impression she doesn’t think I’m up to snuff.”

Draco grimaced. “I’m sorry. I tried to keep her at bay.”

“Oh, I know. I appreciate it, but it’s not necessary.”

“We don’t have to go tomorrow. I can cancel.” 

The worry in his voice made Hermione’s skin tingle. “No, we are going. I meant what I said. It’s alright. She’s your mother. Plus, I’m not afraid of her. I can grit my teeth for an hour or two.”

He sat next to her, setting his tea on the coffee table. A hand slowly creeped towards her own, not fully grasping it but letting their skin brush against each other. A silent acceptance. 

As she stared at him, the earlier question came to her. “We actually had a pleasant discussion about her gardens.”

A finger was now drawing languid circles on her palm. “She’s very proud of her gardens.”

“I could tell. Interestingly enough, she seemed to be unaware of any Venomous Tentaculae.”

The finger stopped.

“She seemed surprised that you were injured at all and then in the next breath, she seemed certain that you had slipped down the garden stairs.” 

He removed the finger altogether, sighing loudly as he leaned back, eyes closing briefly.

“We said no lies.” Hermione kept her focus dead on him. 

“I assume it won’t aid my case that this happened before that agreement?” He opened an eye to peek towards her. “I didn’t think so.” 

He ran a hand down his face. “Okay. Right. Let’s start from the beginning then.” He leaned forward once more, resting his forearms on his thighs and holding his hands together. “I did not get injured escaping from a Venomous Tentacula.”

“Shocking, but I gathered as much. Now, I want to know how you got hurt and why you lied.”

“Because the truth is rather more embarrassing and entirely less rugged.”

“Draco, I swear to God, if you don’t—”

“I got hurt running from a peacock.” 

Hermione blinked. “You… got hurt escaping a peacock.”

His face instantly flushed. “That face! That’s exactly why I didn’t want to say anything!”

“I’m not making a face!”

“Yes, you are!” He pressed his hands to his face, blocking her from his line of vision. “I got drunk and was fucking around the garden and ran into one of those blasted birds. I thought that damn snake had eaten them but apparently Mother decided to restock the grounds in my absence. I tried to run and ended up falling on my ass into a particularly thorny rose bush. Fig healed me as best he could but my mother came to investigate what was going on, so I Flooed back here and then you found me. You know the rest.” His cheeks were bright red.

Hermione took a moment to digest the information. 

“Why didn’t you just tell me the truth?”

He scoffed. “Running from a Venomous Tentacula seemed less pathetic than a peacock.”

“You don’t need to impress me.”

“Aren’t you humble? You’re an actual war heroine, Hermione! You rode on a dragon! You started a rebellion in fifth year!”

“Those were extenuating circumstances.” 

“Fine, then it’s because you are brilliant and brave and ridiculously self-sacrificing and somehow you let me near you. That’s why I wanted to impress you or at least not come off like a total wanker.”

She bit her lip. “You should have still told me.”

“Oh, yes, we were on such solid ground then. You got the slightest whiff that I might actually like you and you ran for the hills. Why would I add to that by admitting that some dressed up chicken scared me half to death?”

She didn’t move a muscle. “Oh.”

His mouth dropped open, face incredulous. “Seriously?” 

She stayed silent.

“Granger, I’m positively bewitched by you. How could you not tell?”

Of course she could tell, but recognising and accepting were two different things. The entire situation had been so preposterous, but the notion that he felt something for her seemed like the most unbelievable of all.

Despite every caress, every compliment, every longing glance, she wasn’t sure how to accept it.

“You can continue to pretend to ignore it if you want, but I can’t pretend to not feel it.” He didn’t blink or falter. He was wholly unafraid in his feelings. 

Her fingers reached from his hand, holding it close to her. She wasn’t sure what to say in response, so she just entwined her fingers with his and pulled his mouth closer to hers, letting the warmth fill her. When their lips parted, their foreheads remained in contact as they basked in each other's presence. 

“I’m sorry that I lied to you before.”

“Thank you for telling me the truth now.”

He nuzzled into her before leaning back. “I completely forgot; how did it go today?” 

His face looked so genuinely interested in the news that it sunk her heart. “It was actually cancelled.”

“What? But you worked so hard!”

She frowned. “The Wizengamot had an emergency session, so they cancelled it indefinitely.”

“I hope it was a session to figure out which spell could pull their heads out of their asses.”

“It was to repeal the Gallows Marriage Law.”

The ire in his features seeped out instantly, fear taking its place. “I’m fucked, aren’t I?” 

“Harry said it wouldn’t affect your stay. As long as we follow their stipulations, you’ll remain free.”

His hand gripped hers even tighter. Hermione rubbed her thumb against his knuckle. “I’m not letting you go back, Draco.” 

He nodded, but the grooves of worry remained, and his fingers still shook. She wanted nothing more than to wrap him up and protect him from the threat that would loom over them for the next five years.

Hermione was accustomed to wanting to protect those around her. She liked to think it was a trait that the Sorting Hat had recognised and had led her to Gryffindor instead of Ravenclaw. She felt intensely protective over Draco, but it wasn’t motherly like it was with Harry, or vaguely adversarially like it was with Ron. She wanted to protect Draco from the world around them because she couldn’t bear to see it chip away at the new person that sat before her.

A person who was witty and smart and bratty, but also who wasn’t afraid to split his chest wide open before her. 

Like the precious stone that sat on her finger, he was made of many facets that Hermione desperately wanted to explore. 

They sat together as the room shifted from evening glow to the darkness of night. 

Without saying a word, she stood and led him to her room which had quietly become their room in silence.

They stripped off clothing and crawled into bed. He wrapped his arms around her, resting his face against the soft skin of her belly as she cradled his head to her. 

The silence wasn’t disturbed with any more promises or apologies. Instead, they weaved themselves together, letting the warmth of their bodies and the firm pressure of their limbs convey the unspoken words that they were okay.

They would be okay. 

Notes:

22! Ya’ll, thank you SO much for following the story! I’m so appreciative of all the comments and support, it’s been so amazing!

Per usual, the biggest thanks to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter!

This was written on my phone late into the night with my husband snoring next to me. He is very supportive but wishes I slept more lol. Proceed with caution.

I don’t own shit <3
Chapter 23

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Resisting the urge to smooth down her robes for the hundredth time, Hermione stepped out of the ornate Malfoy Manor fireplace.

“Just say the word and we can leave.” Draco repeated, also for the hundredth time.

They were handling it fine. It would be fine.

“It’s fine, I’m fine.” Hermione lied as Pimsey greeted them again. 

As they walked down the grand hallway, Hermione's heart steadily pounded. She was willingly walking back into the nightmare. 

“Ahh, Draco and dear Ms. Granger, thank you for joining me.” Narcissa looked as resplendent as ever as she stood in pearlescent gossamer robes. 

“Hermione, Mother.” Draco had once more taken on his stiff and formal demeanour, worlds away from the man who had burned his finger trying to cook an egg that morning. 

“Yes, of course, forgive me.” The witch smiled beautifully but Hermione saw the slip up for what it was, a reminder. 

They once more sat at an exquisitely set table and waited as Fig brought out a leek bisque. 

“I saw in the paper that the Gallows Marriage Law was overturned. I was not surprised by it, I must admit. Dear Hermione’s workaround was quite the talk of the town. I can tell you now that I am sure a few higher ups did not take lightly to being bested by someone like you.”

Hermione ladled the savoury liquid with more gusto than needed. 

“Yes, it can be rather difficult to accept a defeat from an unexpected opponent. They should have realised they met a very worthy adversary in her. Then again, they were foolish enough to underestimate her.” Hermione froze at Draco’s compliment.

From her periphery, she noticed Narcissa’s fork freeze in midair. A moment later, it gracefully passed the woman’s pale pink lips. “Of course.”

There was an awkward pause, in which Hermione swallowed quickly. “It was a surprise for us as well. It won’t affect Draco’s case, thankfully.” She could feel her hand tighten on her spoon. “The Wizengamot apparently has enough time to change the laws they deem unfit.”

“Are you not pleased with how they govern?” 

“I don’t think I’ve kept it a particular secret that I disagree with their particular brand of justice.” 

Narcissa held her stare for a moment longer before turning to Draco. “And you?”

Draco glanced at Hermione quickly before returning to his mother. “Do I like the governing body that tried to put me to death and who continues to lord that power over me? Not exactly, no.”

His mother appeared to ignore his snooty tone and the way his nose crinkled in distaste. “You could do something about it, you know.” 

He raised a brow. “And how would I do that?”

“As the sole heir of both the Malfoy and the Black lines, you are entitled to a Wizengamot Seat.”

Draco's mouth dropped open as Hermione coughed, choking on soup. “Excuse me?”

Narcissa nodded gently. “Once you receive your full pardon you would be eligible to hold the seat.”

“I don’t remember Mr. Malfoy holding the seat, I thought it was inherited.” Hermione wanted to add that an inherited seat in their governing body gave even more unfair advantages to those born into ancient families but withheld it.

Narcissa frowned. “An unfortunate condition after the first war. A condition that Draco would not need to abide by, thanks to your intervention. He just needs to follow the Wizengamot’s requests and then inherit his birthright.”

“Just something to consider while you wait. It’s important to begin cultivating your intentions and image now, while the world is watching.”

The beautiful woman resumed eating as if she hadn’t just shared a potentially life-altering bit of information. 

“Right, Mother. Of course.”

Hermione flickered her eyes to where Draco sat. His face was smooth as he sipped the rapidly cooling dish, as if nothing had happened. The way he could deftly move between emotions made her almost dizzy. 

Fig brought out the second course and Hermione picked at the tender greens on her plate.

“Hermione, how fares your work? Draco shared how busy your days are, very little time for outside affairs, I’ve heard.”

Hermione choked down a mouthful of rockets. “Very busy. The overturning of the Gallows Marriage Law has taken up time usually allotted for meetings with the Wizengamot, which had delayed a few of my projects. Hopefully, not by too long.”

“Hermione is hoping to open a wing at St. Mungo’s for those stricken with lycanthropy, Mother.”

Narcissa’s lips turned downwards ever so slightly. “I can’t imagine it has been a particularly easy campaign to advocate for. Werewolves have inflicted damage on the Wizarding community for centuries.”

“I’m hoping to appeal to the Wizarding community’s humanity. These so-called creatures were, and still remain, human beings before they were attacked. As you might well be aware, there were many victims during the war.” Inside these very walls .

“Ah, yes, Greyback. Wretched thing. Interestingly though, he was a part of a not insignificant faction of werewolves who found themselves more suited to the violence that their beast form allows. They enjoy the pain and suffering that they inflict upon wizards. Being a Muggleborn, I’m sure you are unaware, the wounds between Magical folk and Werewolves run deep.”

“Hermione is very knowledgeable in the history between wizards and those with lycanthropy and on the recent shifts in Wizarding opinion. I have no doubt she will be able to actualise the new Wing.” His voice was still cool and almost indifferent as he spoke before taking another bite of pickled onions. 

Narcissa’s jaw clenched for the briefest of moments, the only sign of annoyance in an otherwise impenetrable facade. 

Hermione so badly wanted to storm out, wand blazing. The only thing keeping her seated and choking down what should have been a delicious meal, was that blasted look of hope on Draco’s face when she had accepted this dinner invitation.

The main course was brought out, a beautiful beef bourguignon, and Hermione prayed they could all chew quickly, bringing this night to an end. 

“Are you still in contact with the Weasleys, Hermione?”

“I am.” 

“Distant family members of ours on the Black side. Old breeding there, though you might not be able to tell now. I heard you were close with the youngest son, if I’m not mistaken?”

“Mother.” The name carried a warning in it.

“It was just a question. I’m simply making conversation. I would like to get to know your wife better.”

“Yes, I was.” Hermione refused to be ashamed of her past, her choices, not to the likes of Narcissa Malfoy.

“I would say shame that it didn’t work out, but obviously you being available was extraordinarily helpful for us. Are you still close with him?”

Hermione's cheeks burned. “He was a bit confused at the turn of events that occurred, but yes, I would say we are still close friends.” 

“That’s wonderful. Who knows, maybe the future is brighter than the two of you realise.”

Hermione dug her nails into her palms. “He is an important friend and hopefully will continue to be for a long time.” 

Draco was intently staring down at his plate, his jaw twitching. 

“Of course. Friendship is so important. Speaking of friendship, Draco, do you remember Céleste Bonneville? You played with her as a boy.”

He placed his utensils down. “I do remember Céleste. Why do you ask?”

“Oh, I’ve kept in touch with her mother, Josephine, for quite some time. The family has been very understanding about our circumstances. She recently wrote to me that Céleste graduated from Beauxbatons. Apparently, she had taken an interest in the Abraxans and wanted to stay to help their breeding and training program, much to her parent’s horror. I think they were hoping to keep the matter hush hush, but the girl was quite determined.”

“Fascinating.” 

His response was droll, but Narcissa was undeterred. “Dear Josephine was terribly distraught. Céleste is demanding at least three years before she is willing to agree to a match and that father of hers dotes on her every whim. Waiting so long for marriage is never a good look for a witch, one starts to question why she hasn’t been sought after.” Narcissa smiled broadly now. “It is a good thing we stayed in touch because who should happen to send a letter my way inquiring about you.”

Hermione’s stomach dropped.

No. No.

She wasn’t seriously discussing a match for when they divorced right before her, was she?

“Mother.” The calm was slowly fading from Draco’s voice, the sharp note of frustration replacing it. 

“I’m not sure it would be the match we would have originally planned. Their lineage isn’t as suitable as one could hope for, but they are quite respected in their circles in France.”

“Mother.”

“Céleste is also quite accomplished despite her apparent obsession with magical horses. Very pretty, if I remember correctly, beautiful blonde hair, which I know you appreciated in Miss Greengrass.”

“ Mother .”

“It really is important to start planning on an arrangement early. I’m not sure we’ll find someone else who is willing to wait for your divorce.”

“That is enough , Mother.” 

Hermione could feel a lump forming in throat, the faint sense of queasiness making her mouth fill with saliva. Her eyes burned as she fought back the indignant tears that threatened to make this entire situation so much worse. She refused to appear weak. “I’m just trying to think of your future, my heart. Dear Hermione isn’t offended. After all, she made it very clear where she stood when we last met. Isn’t that right, Hermione?”

Two sets of pale eyes landed on Hermione. She felt the barest wobble of her bottom lip which she quickly hid with a bite of her teeth. 

Draco’s eyes narrowed in on the small gesture. “I think we are done here.”

“Come now, Draco, it’s no time for theatrics.”

“I, too, hoped for a pleasant meal, Mother, but that apparently wasn’t in the tea leaves tonight.” He gathered the thick napkin in his lap, wiping the corners of his mouth. 

Hermione’s hand shot out for his arm, earning a questioning glance from him. “It’s alright, I’m fine. Let’s just finish the meal,” she murmured. 

She didn’t want to be there, far from it, but she couldn’t bear the thought of him losing what she had lost. 

A mother.

He stared at the hand that rested on his sleeve before nodding and settled back in his chair. His form remained tense as he picked up his fork and knife once more. 

“Thank you, Hermione. You have always been so reasonable, an admirable quality to have. Preparing for what lies beyond this unsavoury period is best for everyone involved. Draco will need a suitable alliance to maintain the family reputation and, Hermione, the Weasleys would be a very welcoming and understanding family for an ambitious woman with a lineage like yourself.” 

Draco stood up abruptly from the table, the screech of his chair across the floor echoing through the spacious dining room. 

“We are leaving.” Draco’s voice dropped low. She felt a hand remove her own napkin from her lap before gently grasping her hand, leading her up. 

“Draco- it’s fine—”

“No. It’s not.” 

He turned his attention back to his mother. “You know, Mother, I would have expected more courtesy and respect towards her. She did, after all, save me from a near certain death.”

“Of course I’m thankful. I’m also realistic. Even with a full pardon there is no guarantee a suitable family will take you. The Bonnevilles are noble enough and desperate enough, we can’t miss this opportunity. You need a wife that is fitting of the Malfoy name by your side.”

“How dare you.” His voice was soft– just quiet rage. “You don’t get to say that, not to her. You never get to speak like that to her. This evening is over.” 

She could feel herself being led away from the table, the woman, the awful words. 

“What did you think would happen when your probation was over? That she would continue to be your wife?” 

He stopped walking in front of Hermione but kept his back turned. 

Narcissa was now standing, herself, her beautiful hands folding in front of her. “You’re the Head of this Household. You have responsibilities, expectations that must be met. Think of the Malfoy name.” 

The room was silent. 

“You, too, had responsibilities.” His back remained to his mother; the delicate words whispered towards the ghost-filled walls. 

“Pardon?” Narcissa stepped closer to where they stood.

Hermione’s hand was released as Draco finally turned. The composure was gone. His brows were pulled together, and his jaw trembled. “I said, you had responsibilities too. Were you thinking of the Malfoy name as you watched The Dark Lord brand me? When he commanded me to kill?”

His mother’s eyes widened, lashes flitting with confusion. “I didn’t have a choice. I did what I could. I saved you.”

“You are my mother. You are my mother and you allowed me to be fodder in your war. You raised me to think it was a gift and I was naive enough to take it. Do you know how much I hated myself for my part in it all? For the choices I made. But I realised something - I had plenty of time to think while I wasted away in a prison cell. I followed the exact path that was laid for me, the path that you dutifully carved with your own hands. There you have it, Mother, I fulfilled my responsibilities. I did what was expected of me. Are you happy now? With where it got me?” His voice cracked as a tear slipped past pale lashes, the trail glistening in the light of the candelabras. His lower lip trembled, a pink tongue gliding against it as if to soothe the hurt.

Narcissa's firm exterior did not falter. Hermione watched in wonder and horror as the woman straightened her shoulders and held her head high. The only tell of emotion laid in her eyes that suddenly appeared brighter and the slightest tremble in her hands as she smoothed her robes. 

“I did the best I could,” she whispered.

While her features were hard, her voice carried the emotion of a woman who had been pushed out to sea. Haunted and alone.

Draco shut his eyes briefly before opening them once more, his lip quivering gently. “You saved me and put me in a cage. She saved me and set me free.” 

As he pulled Hermione through the halls, she couldn’t forget the image of regal and poised Narcissa Malfoy looking as if she could fade into the walls of the ancestral home she was so desperate to protect, left with nothing but her lineage. 

The moment they arrived home, Draco pulled her to his chest, his heavy arms wrapped around her. “I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry.”

She struggled to pull her hands from where they had been caught under his touch but found his back as she rubbed soothing circles.

“I’m fine, really. I’m so sorry for you. That was…”

“It was shit. I know. It was so stupid to even go. I don’t know what I was thinking.”

“You were thinking that you wanted your mum. Believe me, I understand.” 

He released her only to grip her face in his hands. They felt cold, like the emotional events had left him depleted. “I’m not making any marriage arrangements. I'm not planning a future past this, past right now.”

She held his hands with her own but looked to the floor. “I’d understand, if you wanted to plan for… after.”

Five years. 

That’s what they had sworn. Neither of them had signed up for forever. He had said he liked her, not professed his undying allegiance. 

She had to keep herself level headed and reasonable. 

“No, Granger.” 

She looked back to where his face was, so close to her she could feel his warm breath across her cheeks. 

“Maybe you won’t want me after. I’d understand. But I am not thinking of after because I’m not sure I want to think of an after. I know what life was like before you. I don’t know if I can handle after you.”

Hermione didn’t know what to say, how to respond. Not a single trace of doubt rested in his face.

“You don’t have to make any promises or feel the same. I’m fine with that. I just want to be here for right now, in this tiny cottage with your ridiculous cat, next to a Muggle town, with you.”

If he had been looking for a response, he stopped his search as he pulled her in close, melding their lips together. 

They didn’t make it to the bed.

Draco guided her to the floor where a thick oriental rug laid beneath them. He carefully lowered her body, pressing the lines of his against her. Hands slid up her sides, lifting her skirt, bunching the material around her belly. Her hair was clinging to the fibres of the rug, static crackling as her head shook back and forth while Draco focused his attention on the skin of her neck. The delicate flesh was so sensitive, walking the line of pain and pleasure with every lick, every nip. 

While maintaining contact with his mouth against her body, he unbuttoned her blouse, untucking it. Once it was opened, he sat her up. He slipped the soft material off her shoulders, tossing it somewhere. His mouth trailed down to the valley between her breasts and then to her nipple, which he bit through the laced material of her bra. As he nibbled, he trailed his fingers to her back until they found the clasp. It took him a few fumble-fingered attempts but he unhooked the wire before sliding the straps off of her shoulders with the softest caress. Her bra slipped half off of her body, but he didn’t move to take it off completely. A single pale finger brushed against the slope of newly revealed skin at the top of her breast. The barest hint of sensation sent a network of electricity down the skin stretched across the vertebrae of her spine eliciting a soft moan. 

“You have the softest skin.” he murmured, not taking his eyes from where his finger made contact. Hermione was certain it would not be possible to tire of the way he touched her, the way he looked at her. Like she was made of precious stones, of silver, of gold. 

He made her feel magical. 

Hermione knew she was, of course. She could call on it, could prove it, but in Draco’s hands she felt it.

He pushed her curls behind her shoulders, wrapping a curl around his finger before releasing it and leaning over her once more.

Hermione stopped him with a hand to his chest.

“Granger?” 

“I’m sober. I know who you are right now.” 

Any confusion left his eyes, immediately replaced with desire and swiftly followed by apprehension. “I’ve- you know I haven’t–”

“I know. Do you want me to show you?” She held his eyes, trying to convey that he was safe, that she would take care of him.

“Yes,” he whispered.

He allowed her to switch their position, leaving him sprawled across the floors of their cottage while Hermione leaned over him. She had removed her bra and sacrificed it to the abyss of the sitting room. She unfastened his trousers, sliding them off as his hips raised to aid her endeavour along with his pants. Once settled, he leaned up on his forearms. He watched enraptured as she lowered to where he hung heavily. Before he could sink into misplaced embarrassment, Hermione licked the swollen length.

“Oh…” his moan was breathless and spurred her on. In a quick movement, Hermione wrapped her mouth around him, lowering as far as she could take.

“Oh, fuck.” She looked up at him from under her lashes to find him staring at her as if she was the single greatest discovery of the world. 

Magical. 

Hermione continued to lick and suck, applying different pressures in a ring around him with her hand. Saliva slid from her mouth down his length, providing the slip that allowed her to glide around him. 

“I… I can’t… I won’t…”

Through his ramblings, Hermione knew he was close.

“I’m going… I’m going…” 

She moved faster, aiming to see him through to the end but a hand grabbed a fistful of curls, halting her movements with a sharp tug. 

“Sorry, I’m sorry, I just can’t last any longer.” 

“That’s the point.” She leaned back down to resume but another sharp tug of her curls stopped her.

“As much as I love this, and believe me, I do love this, I want to be inside of you. Please.”

Hermione had wanted to show him the enthusiasm, the tender care that he had shown her so many times, but watching him beg before her, hair mussed, chest panting, opened in front of her in every way imaginable, she couldn’t deny him.

She gathered herself and carefully wrapped her knees on either side of his hips. Her skirt still remained on which she held close to her hips. As she rested on his lap, she could feel where her saliva and the wetness between her legs met and mixed as she ground herself against him, eliciting a guttural moan out of them both. She gave herself a few more swipes before balancing on her knees to line him up with her.

“Wait. Go slow, please. I want to watch myself sliding inside of you.” 

His words sent a bolt of electricity through her. They weren’t said to be purposefully arousing. The filthy words were spoken in awestruck, a request for more knowledge.

She abided by his request, lowering herself slowly until she was once more seated against him entirely.

“Oh… Hermione…” 

His voice was made of mist, barely there. 

As she moved, she tilted her hips, his body catching her clit with every downward stroke. Soon her thighs began to shake with the growing pressure. Draco’s hands released her hair and clamped around her hips, helping her to move, up and down, up and down, barrelling them towards their building release.

There, they lost themselves once more in the comfort and warmth of each other's bodies, safe in the tiny cottage by a Muggle town.

Together.

~~

Hermione untangled herself from the warm body in the bed. 

Draco tended to grasp and cling and thread himself around her while he slept. His fears of being taken back to Azkaban were present even in sleep. She carefully lifted arms, shifted legs and pried fingers that were wrapped around the sleep shirt she had on.

After the dinner had left him shaken, he had drifted off as she curled her fingers in his hair, scratching the delicate flesh of his scalp with her nails. His breath had become steadier against the skin of her stomach that he often exposed to nuzzle against. Hermione had continued to soothe him and through that, comfort herself, until the late hours of the night. 

She had attempted to find solace in the arms that held her, but her mind wouldn’t calm no matter how much she tried.

The fallout from the evening had left her reeling, not to mention Draco’s admission of potentially wanting an ‘after.’ The idea sounded both appealing and terrifying. 

Though she had forgiven him for lying about how he had been hurt and somewhat understood the circumstance, (she herself could be quite prideful) that small wiggling of doubt itched at her brain. Hermione didn’t like the unknown, didn’t like unsolvable equations and no matter how enmeshed her life became with Draco’s, a part of him remained a mystery. 

She shook her head as she brought her mug of tea to her lips. 

Hermione chose a new avenue of thought. Her meeting with Dean and Lee had been bothering her. Their story had been so similar to Dennis’s in that despite having the funds and a promising business, they were still getting denied a lease in Diagon. Even five years after the war, the British Wizarding Community was still rebuilding slowly. Hermione had heard around the Ministry that they were encouraging people to open new shops in the vacant buildings, hoping to continue to boost business. She couldn’t think of a reason why both Lee and Dean as well as Dennis had been denied other than being Muggleborn. She could feel the hot itch of indignation at the very thought. 

The creak of the floorboards pulled Hermione’s attention away. 

“Granger? Why are you awake at this awful hour?” A sleepy voice softly echoed into the dim library. 

“Sorry if I woke you up, I couldn’t sleep.”

Draco’s tired features came into view as he pushed the door open fully. “Again, I’m so sorry about dinner.”

She felt her heart dip at his obvious concern. “I promise, your mother isn’t keeping me from sleeping. Honestly, I haven’t been very good at it for a while.”

“A fact that I’m sure you abhor. The amazing Hermione Granger, bad at something? The horror.” He leaned against the doorframe; arms crossed.

“Ha ha how hilarious you are, even with drool on your chin.” She raised a brow.

“I don’t drool.” His reply was quick but the hand that swiped his chin was quicker. 

She grinned but hid it behind her mug with a sip. 

“So, what normally keeps you from sleeping?”

Hermione pondered his question for a moment and then sighed. “All of it.” 

Her mind immediately jumped to cold nights in a canvas tent, cursed daggers, crumbled towers, those who had been lost, both dead and alive, the continuous fight to prove her worth, or the loneliness of survival.

“Just… all of it.”

He held her gaze, understanding filling his face. “Do you know why I refused to take that Hair Growing potion my mother gave me?”

She shook her head.

“It marked a change in my life. Even though getting my head shaved in Azkaban before the Kiss was one of the most terrifying things that’s ever happened to me, I didn’t want to just erase everything and go back. I’m not sure if I deserved a second chance but I got it. I survived. I would look in the mirror and see my shaved head in your tiny washroom and it reminded me that I made it out. Scars and all, I made it this far. Same as you.” He nodded his head to where her own scar rested in her lap. 

“Are you suggesting shaving my head will fix me?” It was his turn to roll his eyes at her words.

“I’m not trying to fix you, Granger. I’m just letting you know that I get it. You can rub your scar or keep supplies on hand or stay up all night and stare at fake stars if that’s what makes you remember that you survived. It doesn’t scare me. I get it.” His eyes were pure silver in the dim light being thrown by the lamp.

In the quiet of the night, in the comforting space of her home, Hermione felt something in her chest stir. It didn’t stab or crack like something being broken but instead burned, like the feeling of delicate new skin being knitted together after an Episkey. 

“Plus, I’d never suggest getting rid of your hair. I’m rather fond of it.” He gave her a smirk. “I’m heading back to bed. Join me when you’re ready, if you would like.” With that, he turned and left her alone. 

Hermione stared at the empty doorway. She didn’t know exactly how to react. She was so used to everyone around her constantly trying to put back together parts of her that they deemed broken, not understanding that some of the pieces no longer fit. 

He hadn’t done any of that. Instead, Draco had shown her his own jagged shard, unashamed. 

Hermione set her mug down and softly padded to her room. He was snuggled deep into the covers of the bed as she gently crawled in. Once she was settled his arms made their way around her, fingers twisting back into the soft material of her sleep shirt, a slow reversal of her earlier escape. With a deep sigh, he soon fell asleep once more, woven around her. 

She stared at the stars until the small dots of light blurred together, allowing the grief to feel just a little bit lighter than it had before.

~~

When the sun was high in the sky, they decided to get out of bed. A lie in after a long night had certainly been warranted.

They ate their breakfast while reading in the sitting room, sharing passages and remarks ( “Matilda was definitely a witch. Is this what you were like as a child, Granger?” ) and enjoying each other’s company. An Owl from Theo arrived, inviting them to another small soirée that evening. For a moment, Hermione could picture her life like this. Away from wars, from blood, from expectations, it felt possible. An after.

He convinced her to go on another bicycle ride. She had managed to repair the one he had broken. She felt the warmth of the sun bake into her skin and watched as it reddened Draco’s neck. They rode slowly, him falling only once. The tall grass chimed as the wind blew through the blades and tickled their noses with green-fragranced notes. It was a beautiful day.

As they pulled their bicycles into the gate of the cottage, they stole kisses and laughed as the sun began to sink behind the hills. 

Hermione noticed a light was glowing from inside the cottage. 

A light she hadn’t left on.

The hairs on her arms prickled to attention. Beside her, Draco stood, suddenly alert, any trace of jovialness gone. 

Hermione pulled out her wand and motioned for him to stand behind her. He hesitated for a moment before stepping to her flank. 

With bated breath, she cast a Silencing charm on the door before swinging it up. Without hesitation, she threw up the strongest Protego she could manage.

“It’s me, Hermione!” 

Ron’s nervous voice rang out into the cottage as he jumped off the sofa. 

Hermione took a full breath before dropping her shield, hand on her heart. 

“Ronald, why would you do that! You scared me to death!”

“Sorry, sorry, I Flooed in a few minutes ago and noticed you were gone. Figured I’d wait a few to see if you came back.”

“Do you make it a habit to stop by unannounced in other people’s homes and then loiter?” Draco’s tight words flew over top of her head.

“Do you make it a habit to hide behind women who are half your size?”. 

“I don’t have a wand, something your Department has ensured. Besides, even if I did, Granger is a better duelist than I ever could be. Even at half my size, with a wand in her hand, she is nothing short of deadly.” 

“Easy words for a coward,” Ron spat out.

“Is there a reason you’re here, Ronald?” Hermione intercepted before the parley could continue. 

Ron’s angry features softened before he looked Hermione in the eyes. “I heard what happened at the Burrow and Merlin, I’m sorry about Mum and even more sorry that I saw her side first and didn’t come see you right away. I just wanted to talk. We… We haven't talked in a while. I think the longest amount of time, maybe in our entire friendship. I know… well, I know I said some harsh things. I’m sorry for that. It was out of line. I was angry and couldn’t see past it. It frustrated me that it’s exactly what you would do, even for someone like him.” His eyes flashed towards Draco before looking back to her. “I just wanted to say I’m sorry and I forgive you.”

Draco snorted behind her. 

“Can he leave?” Ron was glaring now. 

Draco glared right back but looked down to Hermione before his eyes widening. “Seriously?”

Hermione pressed her lips together, pleading with her eyes. 

His features warred between frustration and then resignation and he sighed. “Fine. I'll freshen up for Theo’s.” He resumed his glaring at the other wizard. “I’m just in the other room. If you need anything, just call me.” As he walked to pass her stopped next to Ron. “If you lay hands on her again, wand or not, I’ll make sure you regret it. I’m not half-starved anymore.” The threat was quiet but firm. The toilet door clicked shut, leaving the two old friends alone. 

“Since when does Malfoy care about what happens to you?” Ron’s tone suddenly took on a suspicious tone. 

“Are you here to talk or to interrogate me?” Hermione moved to sit down in an armchair. She hoped that if they both settled, this could be a productive conversation. He had the good graces to look sheepish before resuming his spot on the sofa.

“I am sorry, Hermione. For pushing you. There is absolutely no excuse.”

“You’re right, there is no excuse.” She folded her arms across her chest. 

Ron swallowed. “I know my actions aren’t very deserving, but I would like to be friends again.”

She hadn’t been aware they had stopped.

“I just got so angry because it’s Malfoy. I don’t believe he is deserving of what you did for him, but I recognise that after everything, you deserved me at least listening to you, if not trusting you. Even past being the smartest person I know, you’re special because you’re also one of the most caring. Somehow, I let myself forget that.”

Hermione felt her crossed arms loosen.

It was Ron. Her friend, her previous lover. 

“Thank you, Ron. That means a lot to me. I’m sorry I kept it from you, that it was dropped on you like that. That wasn’t fair of me either.”

“We can’t pretend my reaction is probably the reason why you didn’t. I can see that now.”

Hermione felt like a weight she hadn’t realised was holding her down was being lifted.

“Besides, it's not for forever. He can go on his way soon and you’ll be divorced before you know it.”

“Right?” He was staring at her now, a mixture of concern and awareness etched in the lines around his small frown. His eyes dropped to the ring that sat on her finger. 

“Please tell me you haven’t.”

“Ronald, I don’t think that’s any of your business.”

“You said it was just to save a life, not some affair. What about- I thought we-” his increasingly loud voice cut out as his cheeks flushed bright red, clashing with his auburn hair. The red hue of his skin contrasted with the myriads of freckles splattered across his face. “I thought we agreed it just wasn’t the right time.”

“Ron- I—” 

The attempt at a sentence was cut off by the sound of a door being opened loudly.

Oh god, not again.

“I think you should probably lower your voice, Weasley. It’s impolite to start a row in someone’s home.” Draco’s hair was still damp, droplets falling on his fresh white shirt. 

“This isn’t about you, Malfoy.” Ron’s hands were opening and closing rapidly

“Somehow I just don’t think that’s true.”

“You’re such a shit. How you made her see you as anything else but the cockroach you are is beyond me.”

“That’s enough, Ronald.” Hermione held her wand tightly in her hand.

“You don’t deserve her! You’ll never deserve her! She should be with someone else!” Ron seethed.

Draco scoffed in return, “Oh, I wonder who? Is it perhaps you?” They were now steps apart.

“Stop it! This is ridiculous!” Hermione stepped between them, pressing firm hands against their chests, her wand digging into Draco’s button up. 

Ron pushed against her, but Draco looked down, as if noticing her presence for the first time since entering the room. He glanced up to Hermione’s eyes for a moment before closing his briefly and taking a step back. 

“I never claimed I deserved her. Not even I’m conceited enough to think I deserve her in any way.” He gritted out.

Ron’s puffed out chest seemed to evaporate under Hermione’s hand. “What? So, you’ll let her go?”

Draco snorted, “Now, I didn't say that.”

“But you just said—” Ron looked confused. 

“I said I know I didn’t deserve her. Which I am very aware of. But I’m not so selfless. I know I don’t deserve her but I’m going to keep her. Actually, scratch that, she can keep me. She can have me for as long as she wants me. It’s not up to you, it’s not up to me, it’s only up to her.” 

“Do you? Do you want him?” The question hung around them in the room.

Hermione wasn’t so deluded into thinking she felt nothing for Draco. Of course she did. She felt it like the wind in the grass, felt it like the sun on her skin. She felt it in the quiet moments when they lived their lives next to each other. 

But that leap felt so all encompassing.

There was a comfort in loneliness. 

“That’s between Draco and me. If you came to apologise, I accept. If you've come to be disappointed in me again, you can leave.” 

Her friend’s face fell. “I don’t like this.”

“I’m not asking you to.”

He held her gaze, the small flicker of hope in his blue eyes, smothered right before her own. “Right. Of course.” 

He stepped away from her, straightening out his wrinkled shirt. “Well, I’ve said my piece tonight. You’re an adult, Hermione. You can make your own choices. I just hope you don’t come to regret them. I’m here if you ever need me. I’ll see myself out.” He stepped into the Floo, disappearing with a sad smile on his freckled face.

When the last echoes of his departure had finished sounding through the room, Hermione let out a sigh. 

“I don’t like that man.”

She looked to where Draco stood, chest still rising and falling. “I am aware.” She paused for a moment. “Thank you, though. For not antagonising him.” While he hadn’t been particularly pleasant, she hadn’t missed that he hadn’t goaded Ron to the extent he had previously. 

“Believe me, it took effort.” He looked down to an expensive watch. “We are supposed to be at Theo’s soon.” He glanced up to the now empty Floo. “Maybe we should cancel.”

“I can’t say that I feel like going now.”

He nodded. “That’s completely fine. We’ll stay in.”

Hermione felt a stone guilt sit in her gut. “No, no, you go. I’m just tired. I’m going to head to bed early. Please go, so the entire lot of them don’t decide to show up here instead.”

He hesitated, glancing back to the Floo. “Are you sure? I feel like I should stay.”

“I’m sure, give my love to Theo and the rest of them.”

Still, he didn’t move. Hermione stepped closer and held his cheek. “Go Draco, spend time with your friends. I’m alright, I promise.”

He nuzzled her hand while, eyes searching her face. “Alright. You’re right, Theo would assuredly storm the cottage. If you change your mind at all, just send a Patronus. I’ll come home immediately.”

Hermione's stomach flipped.

Home. 

She stood on her toes and kissed him, holding it for just a moment. “I promise I will. Now go, have fun.” 

He looked back to her once more, only stepping into the fireplace when she gave him a reassuring smile.

Once he was gone, Hermione went to the bedroom to change into her pyjamas. She hadn’t lied, she was tired. 

She wasn't exactly sure what she was feeling regarding Ron. His apology had been heartfelt, she knew that it was. No fistfights had broken out and he hadn’t casted her out of his life entirely. It was more than she had expected from him that morning.

Hermione heard the Floo.

“Draco, I’m fine, really.” She stepped in the sitting room but stopped when she saw Harry practically jumping out of the green flames.

“Harry?”

He looked around the room wildly. 

“Harry, what’s the matter?”

“Is Malfoy here right now?” He dashed to where she stood, tripping over the corner of the rug. When he finally righted himself, he grabbed her shoulders tightly between his rough hands.

“What’s going on, why are you here?”

“Hermione, just answer the question, is Malfoy here?” His voice was rushed as he glanced over her shoulder to the hall.

“No, he’s not. Now tell me what’s going on, or so help me.”

Harry looked back at her, his face pale and grave.

“We need to talk, Hermione. Now.”

Notes:

Chapter 23 chapter 23! Can't believe we are this far. It has been such a blast! Thanks for all the amazing support!

Huge thanks to rompeprop and noxhunter! Ya'll are the best betas. Thank you for using your time to read and edit my story.

This was written in the car during a day of running errands (don't worry, I was not behind the wheel lol) and then finished while I was held hostage during nap time. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 24

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
“I’ve been trying to get you to tell me what’s going on this entire time, Harry.” She stepped out of his hands, rubbing her arms to regain some of the blood flow that had been cut off by his grip. 

Harry looked sickly. The blood was gradually draining from his face, leaving a greyish hue. A hand came up, pressing his eyes behind his crooked glasses.

“Harry?” Dread was beginning to set in. His look of restless nervousness had always been a harbinger of bad news. 

“Remember that investigation I’ve been working on?” His voice was hollow.

“Yes. What does that have to do with me?”

“We’ve been following the case for weeks. We couldn’t understand the pattern, why it changed from beatings to suddenly an Avada, why the locations were all over the place... But… we found a suspect, Hermione.”

She could feel her heart thudding in her chest, could feel the tips of her fingers vibrating. 

“It’s Malfoy.”

Her eyes began blinking rapidly. She wondered briefly if somehow Harry had used a spell that sucked the oxygen right out of the room without her noticing.

“I know you probably don’t believe it, but please know that I fought it. When his name was first mentioned, I was convinced they were biassed against him. I made sure we thoroughly investigated every other possible suspect before I came to you.”

“You’re right, I don’t believe you.” Hermione felt her head shaking back and forth. Her answer had been immediate. There was no way. “No, Harry. It’s not him. I’ve been with him. I would know. I would know if he- if he killed people.” 

“I know. I’m not saying he did it. We have more to investigate, but we are going to detain him for questioning. I shouldn’t even be here. I can’t give you any more details. I could lose my job. I just thought, since things between you two… I just wanted to give you a heads up.”

“It’s not him, Harry. You got it wrong. You missed something. It can’t be him.” She stared into his green eyes, imploring him to understand that he was wrong.

“I’m sorry. The papers are being drawn up now. They will be ready by the morning. Don’t fight it, please.”

“No. They can’t take him. I can’t be so wrong. There is no way. I wouldn’t let someone like that- that- into my home.”

Into my body.

“I know, I know. Promise me, you won’t fight this, won’t let him run. I can’t help him if he runs, even if he is innocent.” 

“You believe he’s innocent, right? You believe me, Harry?” She needed to hear him say the words.

Harry gave her a look that felt like a punch in the gut. “I believe in you. I've always believed in you. But I can’t ignore the evidence. I have to do my job. If he’s innocent, there isn’t anything to worry about. Just please cooperate. Please, Hermione.” 

Hermione felt her head nod.

“I think you should stay with us tonight. I don’t know if it’s smart for you to be here when he gets home.” 

“No.” Her voice came out strong and sure.

“Hermione, what if—”

“I’m staying. I need to talk to him.”

“He could be dangerous!”

“He’s my husband. I’m staying. He isn’t dangerous. If he was going to hurt me, he would have already. He has had an abundance of opportunities. Any moment when I was asleep, he could have attacked me.”

“I thought I told you to lock your door.”

Hermione felt her cheeks burn as she stared at the still flipped corner of her rug. 

“Oh, Hermione.”

She hated the pity in his voice.

“I’ve made my decision. I’m the better duelist. I have years of practice. He doesn’t even have a wand. Not that he’d do anything to hurt me.”

Harry pursed his lips, jaw ticking as he assessed her, looking for an opening to call her bluff. He found none.

“Are you sure?”

Hermione hummed in agreement.

He sighed, running a hand through his hair. “If you need me, send a Patronus. I will be back here as fast as I can. Don’t hesitate.” He paused a moment before pulling Hermione in a near bone-crushing hug. “Please, be safe.”

“I always am.” 

He left after giving one last lingering look over his shoulder.

Hermione stared as the flames of the fireplace gave way to embers and the embers turned to ash. She had subconsciously twisted her wedding ring towards her palm during her conversation with Harry. She could feel the sharp prongs digging in, savouring the pain of metal and stone on flesh.

When the last of the ash fell, she went to retrieve her wand from their bedroom.

It took her longer to produce her otter, each flick of her wrist felt like she was wading through quicksand. Only after the fifth attempt did she succeed

“Draco, please come back.” The otter absorbed her message and then swam through the air before disappearing into a wall. Once the brilliant glow of the Patronus seeped away, the room felt markedly darker. 

Hermione walked back to the sitting room and perched on the edge of the sofa; her nerves too frayed to settle into the cushions.

Draco was being detained. For murder. But it was a mistake. It had to be a mistake. The affection, the passion; she knew it was real. 

The light from the Floo burst before her eyes, the flash of green disorienting. Hermione knew the flames should have been accompanied by the familiar whoosh, but she couldn’t hear it over the ringing in her ears. It was like the aftermath of a Bombarda Maxima, nothing but distorted noise and high-pitched squeals. 

Draco stepped out of the fireplace, cheeks pink, like he was at least a glass of Ogden’s in. 

“Granger.” 

The easy way her name rolled off his tongue made her want to weep. He said it like a term of endearment.

“You didn’t miss much tonight. They decided to play poker. You would have been irate to see what the buy-in was. I can just hear the righteous monologue now. The most horrifying part is I can see your side of the argument. Maybe I should buy something very expensive and very pointless tomorrow to rectify it. Perhaps something for Teddy?”

She didn’t respond.

“Are you feeling any better? I know you don’t want me to bully the Weasel, but I don’t like the way he tries to make you feel guilty for things that you don’t need to apologise for. You think they would have learned to trust your judgement by now.”

His words were filled with concern and just a hint of brattiness, exactly like the Draco she knew. 

Her Draco.

“Granger?” He stood in front of her now, his long legs stretched tall before her. “Hermione? What’s wrong?”

She licked her dry lips. She felt out of focus, as if the entire moment was one of her elaborate dreams. 

“Harry came by.” Her voice wobbled.

“Did he say something? Was it about Weasley’s visit? He better not be bothering you over it.” A sturdy hand pushed the hair that had fallen into her face away.

Hermione leaned into the warmth for just a moment, savouring the comfort before catching herself and shooting off the sofa, so quickly that Draco’s fingers snagged in her hair, causing a sharp tug at her crown. She took a few steps backwards, trying to put some distance between them. 

Finally looking up, she saw Draco standing frozen. His hand was reaching out, exactly where her head had been moments before, and he was staring at the now empty sofa cushion. A look of bewilderment was splattered across his face as he held nothing but air in between his fingertips. 

“It wasn’t about Ron. It was about you.”

“What does Potter want with me?” He stared at the sofa for a moment longer before looking to where she stood. His features were pulled tight with confusion.

Hermione felt her heart thundering in her chest with such ferocity that it made her breathless. “I’m going to ask you something. If you feel anything for me, anything real at all, you’ll tell me the truth.” 

“What the fuck, Granger?” As if a Finite had been cast on a full body bind, he suddenly sprang into motion. He took a few steps towards her. 

Hermione stumbled backwards, a hand halting any further movement. 

“What are you doing?” he asked.

“The Ministry plans to detain you in the morning.” 

“Oh.”  

Hermione stared at Draco. The world felt like it was shifting around her, making her feel unsteady on her feet. 

“I was waiting for this. It took longer than I expected for them to come up with something.” He sounded so tired. 

Hermione felt eyes widen. “Do you know what they are accusing you of doing?”

He scrubbed his face with his hands. “Does it matter? They were never going to let me go. I realised that fairly quickly after our last trip to the Ministry.”

“They're saying that you’re beating Muggles, Draco. That you killed them.” She felt like she should be yelling but she couldn’t muster the energy.

The outer corners of brows pulled down as his mouth dropped open. Fear, hurt and horror bled out of his features. “What? No! I swear it. I couldn’t.” His eyes rapidly searched hers. “But you believed it. You think I would kill someone. After everything.” Hermione had never heard his voice so broken, so small. 

Tell me I’m wrong and I’ll believe you. 

A shadowed crease had appeared between his brows and the hollows under his eyes, which had become glassy, were darker than they had been moments earlier. She could spot the quiver of his chin as he stared straight into her eyes once more. She wanted to smooth the lines from his face and repaint his features with the beautiful smile he had given her that morning. 

 She held her hands still.

“Tell me the truth, Draco.” Her voice was thick, laden with the tears she refused to release. If she started, she wasn’t sure she would be able to stop.

Please deny it. Please say it isn’t true.

“I already told you I wouldn’t lie to you, not anymore. I promised you.”

“I think we both know you haven’t kept that promise.” Hermione’s voice was soft, a whisper into the night.

He was staring straight up now, the exhaustion evident on his face. “You wouldn’t understand.”

“I don’t have the luxury not to.” She held up her wrist, the faint chain-like mark of the Vow catching the light.

He continued staring at the ceiling, not reacting to her words. Finally, he gave a deep sigh and looked at her. His normally bright eyes were dimmed. Not Occluding but so, so tired. “I just… I needed to feel something. Anything.”

Hermione could have mistaken his words for fists by the way they knocked the air from her lungs. “By hurting people?”

He laughed, but it held no humour. “The only one beaten senseless is me. I don’t throw punches. I tried the first time, don’t get me wrong. I was still so weak from Azkaban. I got in one hit that barely fazed the bloke and then he beat the piss out of me. I quickly realised I didn’t need to lift a finger to get what I wanted.”

“That’s how you wanted to feel something? That’s not feeling, that’s just pain.”

“I was supposed to die that day at Azkaban. I didn’t want to die, fuck, I wasn’t trying to die. I wanted to live so badly.”

“But you still risked everything! I saved your life, and this is what you did with it!”

“Because I didn’t realise how fucking hard living would be.” 

Hermione snapped her mouth shut and he continued, face flat. “I wanted to live and then suddenly I was allowed to, and it hit me that I wasn’t sure what I was living for. I had lived a shit life and then was locked away, only to be pushed back out into the world.  A world that hated me.”

“I didn’t hate you.” Her voice was quiet, almost a whisper. Of all the confusing feelings she had felt for Draco, hate hadn’t been one of them. Sadness, frustration, surprise, even something that felt like it could be more. 

But never hate. 

His shoulders slumped even further. “No. You didn’t hate me, and somehow that was worse. I had treated you like shit for years and you married me to save my life. You risked everything to save me, a fucking wreck of a person. And then Weasley hit me, and I felt… something. Something besides all the self-loathing and fear and then after… I just felt numb.”

Hermione remembered how she had assumed he was getting his Occlumency back after that fight. His features had smoothed out into indifference, even with dried blood on his face. 

He kept going, “So, I got on the bicycle and just rode. I wasn’t going anywhere on purpose; I didn’t lie about that. I just needed to get out.  I stopped at a pub in the town. Didn’t have any money, but some Muggle sod saw me and bought me a couple of pints. The alcohol was shit but it did the trick. When I was done, I found myself on a bench. The same one we had eaten ice cream on. I was so angry at my choices, my birthright, my life. A man tripped over the bicycle. I just remember wanting to feel numb again and before I knew it, I was talking shit. Just nonsense really, hoping to rile him up enough to hit me. I fully planned to hit back, but I couldn’t land anything that hurt. Found myself lying on the ground surrounded by rubbish bins. I must have lost consciousness for a little afterwards because suddenly I was waking up, alone. I rode back and used some of the healing salve on myself.”

“You lied about crashing the bike,” she breathed. 

Draco’s eyes closed for just a moment, like he could shut out the question. “Yes.”

Hermione felt a tear escape the corner of her eyes and she furiously swiped it away. He caught the movement and took a step towards her, lips trembling as he pressed them together. 

“When else?”

He stopped his approach. “Hermione…”

“When else?” She repeated, hoping her demand sounded less brittle than she felt.

“When I came home drunk, and you stayed in the sitting room with me.”

Hermione’s throat felt like it was closing. “The peacock.”

Draco bit his lower lip, his nostrils flaring as he clenched his jaw. “I didn’t get attacked by a peacock or a Venomous Tentacula. I had Fig Apparate me to a local pub. Got into a round with a man I bumped into in the street.”

“You lied.” She dug her nails into her palm. “I asked you to tell me the truth and you lied again.” The story had been so ridiculous, but she had been desperate to believe it. She felt as if the realisation would bury her but refused to give way to it. “Is that all of it?”

He was staring at the floor now. “There were a handful of other times. Usually, I would Floo to Theo’s or Manor and have a house elf take me. I’d drink and when I was done drinking, I’d talk until someone hit me. Not every time. Sometimes I just drank, and it was enough. Other times, I needed more. I wasn’t hurting anyone back. It doesn’t break any Wizarding law to get into a fight without magic in Muggle London.”

“Is that it?” Please, let that be it, please, no more.

“The night of Theo’s party.”

“I thought I heard the Floo. I thought it was a dream.” She had convinced herself it was a dream, at least. Hermione pressed a hand against her stomach, trying to calm the nausea. She suddenly remembered what had preceded that late night exit. 

“We… we had… and I thought…” She couldn’t seem to find the words. Draco’s head hung low. Hermione saw a droplet fall from the tip of his nose before splattering on the floor. She ignored it. “You seemed happy with the evening.” 

I was happy, weren’t you?

He shot his head up. His eyes were rimmed with red, his cheeks wet. “No. It wasn’t like that.” He tried to step towards her again. “That night was amazing, being with you was amazing. It had nothing to do with you.”

Hermione stepped back, wrapping her arms around herself. “How can you say that? You obviously weren’t okay. You left me alone in bed for christ sake.”

He was shaking his head back and forth, hands reaching for you once more. “Me getting into fights has nothing to do with you. For once in your life don’t put everyone else’s problems on your shoulders. My fuckups aren’t yours to carry.”

“You put them on me.” Her whisper ricocheted around them, a bullet that couldn’t be taken back, crashing into whatever was in the way. 

You made me care.

His hand, which had been grasping for her, fell slowly to his side. “I tried. I tried to stay away from you. I knew it wasn’t fair, it wasn't okay. I tried my hardest but in the end, it was just another thing I got wrong.” He gave a sad smile, his eyes empty. 

Hermione pressed her fingertips to her collarbone, digging her nails into the skin. “You lied. It’s all been a lie.” Her cheeks ached from trying to stop the corners of her mouth from pulling down on their own. 

“No. No, it hasn’t been a lie.” His exhausted tone gave way to fear. “Yes, I didn’t tell you everything and I’m sorrier than you know. At first, I didn’t care about anything, myself included. Lying was easy because nothing mattered. But then… it changed. Things mattered. You mattered to me, more than I realised someone could matter to another person. Then I was lying because I was terrified of you finding out. I’m a coward. I’ve always been a coward, but my feelings have been completely true. But falling in love doesn’t heal people. It wasn’t on you to heal me. It’ll never be on you to fix me.” He ran a hand over his mouth, shame filling his features. “I just didn’t want you to see me as something broken.”

“You never gave me a chance! You made me believe in an after and now you’re saying you never expected to even have one.” Hermione steeled herself for her next words. “The last victim was a Killing Curse.”

Draco finally gave the look of shock that Hermione had been searching for. “I don’t even have a wand. I swear to you. I haven’t hurt anyone like that. I don’t want to hurt anyone.” He took in a choked breath and then met her eyes, his once more a bright silver. “Do you think I could do something like that? After everything, do you really believe I would kill for fun? I might be a lot of things but I’m not a monster. I’ll do anything to prove it to you. Take my memories, give me Veritaserum, I don’t care, I’ll do it.” His words were frantic, pleading. 

“I don’t think anyone could hate him more than he hates himself.”

Theo’s words from the night before their wedding came to Hermione as she watched Draco suck in a trembling lower lip. Like images on a reel of film, snippets of their time together began to flash through her mind in quick succession- a sun-soaked windowpane, a tear sodden half-kneazle, a kitchen floor dusted in white, ice cream, bicycles, chamomile tea, a small boy on a toy broom, soft touches, curls wrapped around fingers, lips against her skin, an after. 

No.

The man crying in front of her bartered with her cat and carefully tucked away paper crowns from his cousin. He couldn’t sleep without holding her for comfort and he yearned for light because he had been locked away in darkness, alone. 

The man in front of her came to her defence when people, even those she considered family, treated her poorly. Because he saw her as a person worth standing for, broken pieces and all. 

Something in her gut believed him. She had ignored her instinct about the missing potions and salve because part of her hadn’t wanted to go where it would lead, but Hermione didn’t want to ignore this. 

For all the reasons she had to question him, to be angry with him, she couldn’t bring herself to believe the Draco Malfoy before her could take lives. 

“What are we going to do?” she choked out.

For a moment relief passed over his face before it sank once more. “Nothing.” 

“What do you mean?”

“I mean that I’m not going to fight it.”

Hermione’s heart began beating even faster. “You said you aren’t even hitting back during these fights. They’ve made a mistake. They think you killed people!”

“This is a checkmate. They overturned the law and now I’ll be sent back to Azkaban with no way to be freed. It was their plan the moment you proposed. I don’t know what they have on me but I’m not sure it matters.” He said it with such assuredness. 

“No. No, they can’t do that. They can’t just charge you with murder without an investigation. That’s not how the law works.” 

“They can and they will. People don’t care about the truth; they’ll just be happy to see me locked back up. And those people are dead, Hermione. I didn’t cast the spell, but they died because of me. Their blood is on my hands.”

“Why are you being like this? Why are you just giving up?” She wanted to shake the despondency out of him. 

“It's the only way to protect you.”

This time it was Draco who raised his wrist and slid his sleeve up, revealing the mark the Vow had left. “They’ll use this against you. You Vowed that you would take my place if I tried to run away. So, I’m not going to.” 

“They’ll sentence you to the Kiss. I won’t be able to save you again with the law overturned.” The words hurt to even say. 

He shrugged, a smile that was more akin to a grimace on his face. “I haven’t had many moments in my life where I’ve made the right choice.”

Her heart felt like it was being crushed. “No. There must be something. If you’re innocent, then we need to fight it! This is Codsworth, you know it! He’s had it out of us the entire time.”

“You’ve done enough, Hermione, more than anyone has for me before. It's my turn.” Draco looked at her in a way that would have broken her heart if she wasn’t sure it was already shattering. “I lied to you, and you still want to save me. You really are golden.”

“I don’t want you to die.” The whispered confession slipped out of her mouth. 

Draco had not moved since his last attempt to reach for her had been rebuffed. Illuminated by the glow of the evening lamps, Hermione witnessed her husband, the boy who was afraid of peacocks, who sobbed under fake stars, who had been afraid of touching her with his unworthy hands, crumble.

With arms by his side, his face broke. Large tears trailed down his cheeks and wetness gathered on his upper lip before dripping into his open mouth as he let out a ragged gasp. 

“I know this isn’t fair. I know I have no right to ask for anything, but please, just let me stay here tonight. I just want to be at home for one last night.” His shoulders heaved with a forceful sob.

Without thinking, she ran to him. He slumped against her as she embraced his still shaking frame. Tired arms enclosed her waist and large hands clutched her sleep shirt, as if the hold itself could stop what would come at daybreak. She pulled him to the sofa, collapsing under his sagging weight. 

“I’m sorry,” he whimpered into her neck, the wet tears plastering pieces of her hair against her skin. “I’m so sorry. It's all my fault. It’s always my fault.” 

She hushed him as he continued to shake in her arms. “We’ll figure this out. I’m going to figure this out. It's going to be okay, Draco. We will be okay.” 

She felt the weight of the situation sink in. Draco had insisted that he was innocent. His exhaustion and desperation felt so palpable, so real, and Hermione believed him. For all her perfectly valid hesitations, she couldn’t bring herself to see him as a killer. 

The adrenaline wore off, leaving weariness to settle in and a newfound determination alongside it. Draco had been let down by almost everyone in his life, his mother, his father, even Dumbledore. The entire wizarding world had turned their back on a child and sentenced him to die. She wouldn’t be one of them. 

“You left me.”

Gripping him tighter in her arms as she remembered Draco’s broken words, she silently promised to not run away again. She would fix this. 

She was Hermione Granger.

No.

She was Hermione Malfoy.

~~

She woke up feeling cold. 

The room was still fairly dark, only the very first rays of light breaking through her curtains. Her entire body ached as she unfurled herself from its cocooned position. They had moved to the bedroom before she had fallen into a dreamless sleep as her adrenaline waned. She stood and rubbed her eyes, hoping to scrub away some of the grogginess that weighed her down. Sudden realisation struck her all at once. 

Draco was being detained today. She wasn’t exactly sure when the Aurors would arrive for him, but as the light grew brighter in the cottage the moment grew ever closer. 

Hermione walked to the kitchen and put the kettle on before deciding to make breakfast. She couldn’t imagine eating, but the memory of a ravenous Draco fresh out of Azkaban convinced her to prepare the meal. 

“Draco?” she called out when the kettle whistled. 

Silence.

“Draco, are you in the toilet?” She walked to the hall, only to find the door ajar and the lights off. Hermione’s heart began to beat heavily in her chest. For the first time since waking up, she took notice of the eerie quiet of the cottage. 

She burst into each room, doors banging against walls, until it was finally clear that he wasn’t in the cottage. Still not willing to believe what was happening, Hermione ran outside, scanning the distance as she circled her garden.

“Draco!” Her hoarse cry was met only with bird calls and the sound of wind. 

Heart in her throat, Hermione entered the sitting room once more. She sank into the sofa, disbelief leaving her empty. 

Out of the corner of her, she spotted the worn copy of Matilda. Stuffed between the rough pages was a slip of parchment with torn edges. With shaking hands, Hermione reached for the book and removed the note. 

Hermione had always admired the beautiful script that had accompanied a nasty little boy in school. Though she would never have admitted it, she found herself taking moments to appreciate the strong strokes and flowing loops she would find in the borrower’s card of Library books. Now those same clean lines seemed to haunt her. 

For all the moments that I could have had a choice, you would have been my after.

Standing in the tiny cottage with her ridiculous cat, next to a small Muggle village, Hermione was left holding the most heartbreaking love letter she had ever laid eyes on. 

Alone.

~~

“Harry!” Hermione burst through the Floo, coughing on the soot that filled her lungs as she rapidly took in gasps of air. “Harry!”

“Hermione? What happened? Are you okay?” A bleary-eyed Harry came into the sitting room of Grimmauld Place, still wearing his robe.

“They took him, Harry.” Hermione ran to her friend, grabbing his hands. 

“Calm down. Breathe. What are you talking about?”

“Draco! I don’t know what happened, I woke up, and he was gone.” 

Harry stared at her in confusion. “No, that can’t be right.”

“Do you think I just forgot to look hard enough? I used a Homenum Revelio to make sure. He’s gone.”

Harry gripped her fingers, his hands feeling wrong against her palms. “The Aurors haven’t been dispatched to arrest him, Hermione.”

She felt her own hands loosen their hold. “What do you mean?”

“I mean if he’s gone, it wasn’t us.”

“He didn’t leave. He wouldn’t just leave.”

Harry’s mouth set into a thin line. “Hermione, where do you think he would go?” 

She recognised the question for what it was. “He didn’t run away.”

Pity filled Harry’s eyes. “I know you don’t want to think he would but-”

“No, I know for a fact that he wouldn’t.” 

“How do you know that?”

Hermione hesitated for only a moment before pulling her hand from his fingers fully. Taking a quick breath, she brandished the undeniable link between her and her husband. 

“Because I made a Vow to take his place if he were to evade the law. He wouldn’t run away because it would put me in danger.” Her voice was steady with her conviction.

Harry blinked at her for a moment before his face twisted in horror. “What the hell were you thinking?” 

Hermione felt that familiar heat under the skin of her cheeks but refused to lower her gaze. “That I wanted to save his life. This is how the Ministry made sure that I would be held responsible for marrying Draco.”

“When I said you tied yourself to him, I meant through marriage, which honestly was bad enough, but this? Hermione, I can’t protect you from the Vow. That’s binding magic.”

“I don’t need your protection. He hasn’t run away.”

He stared at her, a strange mixture of concern and disbelief cloaking his features. “Then where is he?”

“I know how it looks; I do. But you don’t know him, Harry.”

“Do you?” he bit out. 

“Harry, I came to you because Draco was gone when I woke up. He wouldn’t run. Maybe you don’t believe that, but I do. Now is the time you decide whether our years of friendship are enough for you to trust me.” She didn’t blink, didn’t waiver. 

He paused for a moment, taking in her raised chin and set shoulders, before sighing and stepping towards the fireplace. He grabbed a handful of powder and tossed it in before pushing his head through the flames. His muffled voice came through a moment later. “Hello, Clarke, is Bones around? She said she would be at the Ministry all night working on paperwork. Yeah, yeah, I’ll wait.” A few moments passed in silence. “Hey Bones, did any of the paperwork go through faster than we expected? Wait what- why wasn’t I immediately contacted? I don’t care, I should have been notified the moment he walked in. Fine, fine. Yeah. I’ll be in as soon as I can.” He pulled his head out and stood. 

“What’s going on?” Hermione was desperate to learn what had led to that conversation.

Harry took a step towards her, stopping just short of where her feet were planted into the worn wood. His mouth was grimly set, features hard. Only a flash of pity passing through green irises gave any sense of emotion. 

“Malfoy turned himself into the DMLE twenty minutes ago.”

Notes:

Dun dun DUN!!!

Chapter 24 ya'll! As always, thank you for all the love and support in the comments and online! It's a blast interacting with everyone.

Rompeprop and noxhunter, you both are the bee's knees!

This was written on my iPhone in my backyard with a cold, while my husband and daughter ran around. They got me sick, and yet I was the only one with toilet paper stuffed in my nostrils. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 25

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione nervously tapped her middle finger against the rim of the chipped teacup in her hands. The clink of her chewed nail against the material kept a steady rhythm as she stared at the clock on the wall.  

“Let the poor thing live, Hermione. It's already battle-worn from Harry knocking it off the counter.”

“His Seeker skills must be getting rusty.” Hermione stared down at her still tapping hand.

“Don’t let him hear you say that. He already nearly had a fit thinking he found a grey strand when it was just Floo ash.”

Hermione laughed but still her eyes stayed on the clock. She heard a sigh next to her.

“Hermione, try to relax. You already told Harry everything Malfoy said to you. If this is all a mistake, if he is really innocent, then Harry will do everything he can to figure it out.” 

The statement was kind, but Hermione could hear the nervous pitch in Ginny’s voice.

After Harry had dropped the veritable bomb on her, she had attempted to elbow her way past him, desperate for the Floo. He had begged Hermione to just stop for a moment and think. He had carefully explained that she wouldn’t be allowed to see Draco until after they interviewed her. 

She had demanded he interview her right there on the spot, but he insisted that the Ministry wouldn’t allow Harry as the interviewer. After more back and forth arguing, Hermione had conceded to wait to storm the Ministry until her designated interview time in the early afternoon. She had only done so at his insistence that she wouldn’t be able to see Draco before the interview no matter what. He promised to personally escort her to Draco the moment her interview finished. 

So here she sat, tink tink tinking against the chilled teacup, eyes fixed forward to see whether it was 11:30 yet. 

She brought her thumb to her mouth, gnawing at the skin as the nerves built once more inside of her.

“Hermione, really, I’m sure it’s going to be just fine.”

Hermione ripped her thumb from her mouth, pressing her fingers against the sting that lingered in the nail bed. “Codsworth is up to something. I doubt even Harry can go against the Wizengamot.”

“You’re acting like they have some kind of absolute power.” 

Hermione began picking at her thumb. 

Ginny still viewed the post-war Ministry with rose tinted glasses. She didn’t see the cracks quite so readily as Hermione did because she didn’t need to. Her husband, brother, and father all held esteemed positions. Her husband was the Harry Potter. Ginny was both Pureblood and a decorated war heroine, not something many could claim. 

“They have plenty of power, Gin.” Images of a bed in a broom closet flashed through her mind. 

“Not enough to falsely imprison Malfoy, husband of the great Hermione Granger.” 

“Hermione Malfoy.” Hermione replied automatically. 

Ginny raised a brow. “Well, that’s a new development.”

Hermione’s eyes finally drifted away from the wooden clock mounted on the wall. “Some things have changed.”

“What changed, if you don’t mind me asking?” 

Hermione knew that it was a ploy to distract her from the clicking of the clock and she was almost grateful. “We slept together.”

Ginny snorted. “Having sex isn’t always intimate. You can be completely undressed and still not bare yourself. This is more than just sex.” 

Hermione agreed wholeheartedly with Ginny’s assessment.

In the moments where she wandered the home they had shared together, terrified of where Draco had gone, Hermione had finally recognised that what lay between them was no longer just lust and attraction. Without permission or forewarning, it had transformed in the quiet moments of their shared life together.

“He’s funny, Ginny. Like properly funny, which I never realised before because he was always mean humoured before, but he honestly makes me laugh. He’s petulant and witty, and he loves Teddy more than he lets on and…” she paused for a moment, trying to convey the sense of belonging in her own life she had somehow lacked before his arrival. “There’s a comfort there that I didn’t have before.”

“You care for him.” 

Ginny’s blunt words took Hermione by surprise. She cleared her throat. “Yes. I do.”

Ginny gave her a sly smile. “Didn’t realise ferrets were your type.”

Hermione snorted. Leave it to Ginny to lighten the mood with a ferret joke.

The Floo whooshed, sending Hermione to her feet with a slosh of cold tea against her hand. Before she could race to the sitting room, Harry entered the kitchen. 

“Harry? What happened?”

Harry’s face looked grim. “Hermione, it’s time for your interview now.” His voice was low and too soft. Hermione hated how forced and controlled it sounded. 

She placed the teacup down and tucked her beaded bag to her side. Harry eyed the familiar bag suspiciously as they turned towards the Floo.

~~ 

Hermione sat in a small office of the DMLE. The room was just large enough to fit a wooden table and a handful of battered wooden chairs. 

Auror Jenkins sat across from Hermione. He was a dour looking man who had the tendency to tap his finger against the wooden table when he did not like Hermione’s answers.

“Mrs. Malfoy, I know this entire situation must be very stressful, but please try to calmly answer our questions to the best of your ability.”

Hermione internally raged at the insinuation that she was somehow being hysterical. “I have been entirely calm and cooperative during this sham of an investigation. I’d appreciate it if you hurry this along though, I’d like to visit my husband.”

Taptaptap.

“Alright, Mrs. Malfoy, noted. Let us resume. Mr. Malfoy has been residing with you since his release, is that correct?”

“That is correct.”

“Has he left your residence without you accompanying him at any point?”

“He visits his mother, his aunt, Andromeda Tonks, and Theodore Nott with regular frequency. None of which have been prohibited by the Ministry.”

Taptaptap.

“Have you witnessed Mr. Malfoy participating in unsanctioned magic while he has been in residence with you.”

Hermione scoffed. “Seeing as he lacks a wand, no.”

Auror Jenkins chin cocked to the side. “Are you certain that Mr. Malfoy has had no access to a wand since his time out of custody?”

She rolled her eyes. “I am certain. I always keep my wand on me. He has had little use for it in our home, it’s fully equipped with electricity.”

“You live near Taw Hill, correct?”

Hermione nodded her chin affirmatively.

“Have you heard of the Tawny Owl?”

Hermione felt the corners of her mouth pull down. “That’s a pub in town. I’ve never been. Why do you ask?”

The floating pad and quill behind Jenkins’ head paused, the increasingly worn nib poised and ready for the next piece of information. 

“Do you believe Draco Malfoy has ever visited that particular establishment?”

“Not that I’m aware of. Again, why do you ask?”

The thick moustache on the man’s face twitched. “A man was found beaten to death near the Tawny Owl.”

Hermione dug her nails into her palms. “That’s extraordinarily sad, but I am not sure what it has to do with my husband.”

“Witnesses reported seeing a young man with a shaved head matching your husband’s description at the Tawny Hill the night of the murder in June.”

“I doubt Draco is the only man to have ever had a shaved head in Britain.”

“Perhaps. But you’ve got to admit what a coincidence it would be.”

Hermione wouldn’t let the comment phase her, but for a moment, she recalled healing Draco’s broken hand in her sitting room. Auror Jenkins held her gaze for another moment before moving on. 

“Has Mr. Malfoy had any extended time away from your residence since his release?”

“Only once. We… We had an argument and he stayed at Nott Manor for a few days before returning. Why? Is it illegal for married couples to quarrel now?”

The Auror gave a flat smile. “Of course not. Might I ask what the row was about?”

Hermione huffed. “I’m not sure how that’s relevant.”

“Any little detail can be helpful. It’s important to be thorough. If your husband is innocent, it’s the details that could save him.”

Hermione chewed the inside of her cheek. Auror Jenkins didn’t believe Draco was innocent and they were both aware of it. Still, the wizard continued to stare at her, quill hovering over the notepad behind him. She knew he wouldn’t drop the question. 

“I read something in the paper that led to an argument.”

“What did you read?”

She felt her nostrils flare. “It was an article about Cora Jones.”

No tapping sound followed her response. Auror Jenkins continued to study Hermione before giving a small flick of his wand. The quill and notepad rested on the table to his side in a neat pile.

“Alright, I’m going to be frank with you for a moment, off the record, because you have done a lot for the wizarding community, and I want to help you out.” 

He sat up in his chair and laced his fingers together in front of him. “You saw that article and got mad because somewhere deep inside you know what Mr. Malfoy is capable of. I’m sure a smart girl like yourself had some great intentions when you helped him be released, as naive as it was, but the evidence is piling up against your husband.”

Hermione felt her mouth set into a thin line. She held herself very still. “Thank you so much for your concern, as naive as it is, but unless you have more pertinent questions for me, I’d like to go visit Draco.”

Taptaptap.

Jenkins’ cheek twitched and he clenched his jaw. With another swish of his wand, the quill and notepad resumed their position in the air behind him. 

“Mrs. Malfoy, are there any concerns, any reasons to believe that Mr. Malfoy may have intentionally harmed Muggles?”

Hermione set her shoulders back. “No.”

The man once more studied her before nodding his head and rising to his feet. 

“Thank you for your time, Mrs. Malfoy. I am sure this will not be the last time we speak.”

Hermione stood and turned on her heel, walking out the small room without another glance back. 

~~

Hermione once more found herself walking in the underbelly of the Ministry alongside Harry, their footsteps echoing in the draughty halls.

They walked in silence until they reached the small window where another Auror sat. 

“This is where I leave you. I’d stay if I could, but I need to get back to the department. Everything is kind of chaotic right now.”

“I’ll be fine, Harry. Thank you for bringing me.”

Harry gave a smile which sunk into a frown quickly after. “Promise me you won’t try anything?” He once more eyed the beaded bag at her side. 

Hermione rolled her eyes. “They don’t even let you take a wand in.”

“I’m aware.” 

She sighed. “I promise, I won’t attempt to break him out. I told you before, the logistics of a Ministry would be just as difficult as Azkaban.”

The Auror behind the glass leaned forward a little and coughed. 

Harry peered back at the man and nervously chuckled. “She’s joking.” 

Hermione gave another exasperated sigh before shouldering past him. “Hermione Malfoy to see Draco Malfoy.”

The Auror took her wand and once more she waited to be let into the hall that would take her to Draco. 

When the door opened, she felt her heart begin to steadily increase in speed. The entire morning had been such a whirlwind of emotion which Hermione had scarcely allowed herself to feel. She needed to see Draco, needed to verify that he was alright with her own eyes. 

She followed the Auror until they reached the same small room she had been led to before.

Hermione burst through the door frame, hearing it click behind her. “What the hell? I wake up, alone, with nothing but a note! Do you know what a wreck I was? I ran outside, barefoot, searching for you. I Flooed to Harry’s, only for him to suggest that you had fled. Then I found out you turned yourself in!”

She stood, fuming for a moment before she released the breath she had been holding since she had found his message. 

Draco sat at the same table, hands shackled, just as the first time they had met in this room. That’s where the comparisons ended. 

He still wore the suit he had donned for Theo’s party instead of the ratty prison uniform. Short locks now replaced matted hair and he appeared more substantial in the tiny room. He looked like Draco this time. 

Her Draco. 

She allowed herself to bask in his presence. The sense of relief was all encompassing as she felt her knees weaken while she sunk into the chair across from him. Her hands immediately found his, warm and exactly what she needed. 

Hermione assessed him, hungry to take in the regal slope of his nose, the shape of his lips, the barely perceptible chip on his front tooth from a broom accident he had kept secret from his mother, the smattering of blonde hair on the back of his beautiful hands that now rested in hers. 

She brought them to her lips, pressing a kiss against the flesh as she closed her eyes and allowed herself to breathe. “You stupid boy, how could you do it?” Her voice shook as she closed her eyes. She lowered their hands to rest on the table, still entwined. “I’m going to get you out. Harry says that there is evidence but won’t tell me what it is yet. I won’t let them do this, though. I won’t let them take you. I’m going to figure out what they think they have. It’s Codsworth, I know it is. Even if I have to blast a damn hole in the wall, I’m getting you out. I know I promised Harry not to, but they can’t just lock you up under false allegations!” she rambled on, squeezing his hands in her grip, reassuring herself he was there, safe.

At least for now. 

She let herself take in another deep breath before opening her eyes and looking back to Draco. 

His face was dull.

Hermione suddenly realised that while she was gripping him tightly in her hands, he remained limp. 

“Finding yourself abandoned with nothing but a note not quite as fun as you expected?” He pulled his hands from her grasp, resting them against the tabletop. 

Hermione stared down at her now empty palms. She could feel her eyebrows furrowing as she clenched her fingers into fists. “What the hell, Draco? Why did you run away?”

He laughed. It sounded cruel to Hermione’s ears. “I’ve told you before, your infernal afterlife has no business with me. As for running away, sorry for the theatrics. I couldn’t help myself when the opportunity for revenge presented itself.” He leaned back, a smirk on his face. “I realised the game was over and figured there wasn’t a reason to delay the inevitable.”

“What game?”

He ran a hand over his face, the shackles restricting the movement to only his jaw. “The game, Granger. This entire song and dance we’ve been stuck in. I must admit, it lasted a fair bit longer than I expected. But when the Ministry came knocking, I knew it was over. All good games must come to an end, after all.”

“What are you talking about?” Her voice was barely a whisper. Her hands trembled against the table, and she tightened her fists until her knuckles turned white.

“I hadn’t expected it to go quite like this but seeing as I’m headed back to the Gallows, I might as well divulge.” He steepled his hands before him. “You asked me before why I accepted your proposal.”

“You said you didn’t want to die.”

He grinned, the tips of his canines pressing into his bottom lip. “Exactly. Which was the truth. I didn’t want to die. I accepted your proposal, understanding that it might be difficult, but vastly preferable to the Kiss. Oh, Granger. You were so sweet, all your fiery righteousness, and in my corner, no less. It was more than I could have ever asked for. I thought surely when Codscock demanded you to take the Vow you would back out. Imagine my surprise when it just seemed to stoke your flames even more. Frankly I don’t understand that Gryffindor tendency, but I must admit I’m rather grateful for it. It has served me very well.

“I thought for sure it was over when you confronted me about Cora Jones, but you sent that endearing little otter, asking me to come home. I couldn’t believe my luck. But then you told me about the Ministry. I knew they weren’t going to let me go once they found out about my Muggle escapades and figured it was time to cut my losses.”

Hermione felt her breathing pick up pace but willed herself to remain calm. “You’re trying to say this was all an act? Really?”

His face filled with pity. “Oh, don't look so dejected. I did come to have a certain level of affection for you, and we really are married. You still have a claim to half of my vaults. I told you that I’d pay you back for everything you’ve given me. I have money to spare, and I daresay, you earned that gold.” His eyes lazily slid down her form. 

Hermione’s chest ached. She pressed her hand to the pain briefly, his eyes following the rise and fall of the limb. “So, what made you change your mind? You’re suddenly ready to meet your end now?”

He kept focus where her palm rested against the table for a moment longer, before bringing his attention back to her face. “I was being a bit dramatic when I said I was headed for the Gallows. Codscock actually came around. I had the full intention of playing the innocent party being wronged by the big bad Ministry, my dear wife fighting for my freedom. After all, I didn’t survive this long just to get the Kiss. I’m fairly sure the beady-eyed bastard could tell you wouldn’t take this sitting down, so he came and proposed an offer. In exchange for my cooperation, he was willing to take the Kiss off the table. Don’t get me wrong, potentially facing a lifetime in Azkaban is no small thing, but not having my soul sucked out is a comfort.” 

He shot a sardonic smile at Hermione. “Looks like your talents won’t be needed after all. I know you struggle to listen past that bushy hair of yours, but I mean it this time. This cause doesn’t need your help. In fact, I don’t want it.”

“Why are you doing this, Draco?” Her voice was so soft.

“It wasn’t personal. I did what I needed to do to survive.”

“We’re all just trying to survive, Granger. Maybe I’m just better at it than others.” 

The memory of Draco’s words slammed through her. His lesson on deception suddenly felt like it was taking on a new meaning.

“You’re lying.” Her voice shook but rang out loud in the small room. 

“And why would I do that?” His lip was curled into a sneer that made Hermione suddenly feel thirteen again.

“Because you’re trying to protect me. You don’t need to. I don’t need it. I’m going to be fine, Draco. I’m going to fix this.”

He scoffed, a vicious smile stretching his mouth long. “You really are pathetic, aren’t you?” 

Hermione took a quick inhale, barely audible, but his grin only widened at her response. “For someone that took so long to let me in her knickers, you really do crawl for every shred of affection someone throws your way. Part of me thinks you like it. Why else would you graciously accept friends who are exhausted by you or your so-called family that only put up with your presence because you saved the fucking world? You’re so broken and the funny part is everyone can see, and nobody cares enough to fix it, yourself included. For Salazar’s fucking sake, even your own parents are happier without you in their lives.”

Hermione bit her lip hard, sure that the skin was tearing under her teeth. Her eyes burned with the tears she refused to shed. “You’re scared, Draco. I know you are. You’re terrified right now and you’re trying to push me away because you think it’s the right choice, but it’s not. I’m not going anywhere.”

“That’s a real laugh. You were the first one to run, tail between your legs before, and now when I’m saying I don’t want you near me, you decide to latch on. If that isn’t the perfect example of you being a glutton for punishment, I don’t know what is.

“That’s it, isn’t it? Somewhere deep inside that twisted little heart of yours, you think you deserve all the judgement and ridicule. Honestly, it would be fascinating if it wasn’t so bloody sad. I know why I went out looking for pain, but I have no idea what your excuse is,” he snorted.

“I don’t believe you. Right now, you’re so lost and scared that you’re getting buried in your own lies, but I don’t believe it.” 

“Look into my eyes, Granger. Tell me if I’m lying.” He leaned forward, arms calmly resting on the table. His irises were a bright silver, no stone grey in sight. He wasn’t Occluding.

“Now for once in your life, just let this go before you ruin my chance at escaping the Kiss.” He paused for a moment. “Well, my second chance I suppose. But in all seriousness, I don’t want your help.”

“I’m supposed to just accept that you’re suddenly fine spending your life in Azkaban? That’s ridiculous, Draco. I was there when you were released. I was there every time you thought you’d go back.”

The easiness on his features slowly bled away. His brows furrowed in frustration as he glared at her. “Is it so difficult to believe that I’d rather sit in a prison cell in the Wizarding world than spend my days in a shit cottage in a Muggle town for the next five years? And even when our mandatory time together is completed, what do I have to look forward to? A life somewhere in fucking nowhere France with Céleste Bonneville as she bores me to death with the mating rituals of Abraxans? I’d rather rot. And that’s if the Ministry ever actually lets me go, which I just don’t see happening. No, I’ve assessed all my options and living out my days, even in a cell, is better than having my soul destroyed, either by a Dementor or by a life I despise.”

“You said you wanted an after. With me.” 

He studied her, a wry grin spreading across his face. “I also said I was a virgin.”

It was a lie, Hermione knew it. His inexperience had been visible in the way his hands had shaken and the blatant fear in his eyes, but the confidence in which he made the bold claim filled her with rage. 

She stood up, her chair sliding back loudly. “You know, I think this conversation is over. I’m going to go and figure out a way to save your life, even if you are acting like an absolute ass. I know you’re doing this to protect me and because you think you deserve it, but after it’s all said and done, I’m going to make you eat your fucking words. So, continue to spew this absolute drivel, but I’m not going anywhere. Consider this me ignoring that little voice in my head that’s telling me to let you fester away in Azkaban, because I know I’m right. If I remember correctly, you thought it was an admirable trait.”

She gave him a slow once over. “I’ll be going now. I care about you, too, Draco. Even when you’re being an idiot.” She turned to go, opening the heavy door. Before she could step through the threshold, Draco’s cold voice floated around her. 

“You definitely get off on being treated like shit. The war really did a number on you, didn’t it, Mudblood?” 

Hermione froze, gripping the door handle tighter in her hand. She didn’t say anything, didn’t turn around. Instead, she stepped out of the room and away from her husband. 

Her stupid fucking husband. 

~~

“It’s ridiculous, Harry! I’ve already told you, he’s innocent!”

Harry sighed, his elbows resting on his knees as he hunched over. “You keep saying that, Hermione. I want to believe you, I do, but the evidence is painting a different picture. 

“And you keep saying that, but you won’t tell me what the evidence is!”

“Because I can’t tell you. It’s an ongoing investigation, it could put the entire case at risk.”

Hermione’s lips pinched together as she took measured breaths. The frustration and fear swirled in her gut, manifesting as a jittery shake in her hands. 

“Please.”

He opened his eyes, head tilting to the side. 

“Please, Harry.”

Hermione didn’t like being vulnerable. Having often been the subject of ridicule when growing up, she had learned from a young age to put up as calm of a front as she could muster. It was a skill that had come in handy in school, when the reality that she wouldn’t be accepted by peers just because she was a witch, became apparent. It had been effective at maintaining some order when living in a tent with two headstrong boys and a cursed locket. It had been necessary as she stood in a cold room and proposed to Draco to save his soul. 

Hermione didn’t like to be vulnerable, so when Harry stared at her and took in her open expression, filled with fear and her eyes that begged him to please help her, he knew she was desperate.

He bit the inside of his cheek, closing his eyes slowly before releasing a breath. “We have witnesses that saw him at the pub on the night of the attacks.”

Hermione felt shaky giddiness at Harry finally sharing, potentially giving her something to work with. “That nasty Auror mentioned that. Someone matching his description at a pub is hardly enough evidence. Also weren’t you the one to say it was strange Robards even wanted you to look into the beating since there wasn’t magic? It’s Codsworth!”

“It wasn’t just that pub, Hermione. Witnesses also place him at The King’s Arms.”

“Where?” The name prickled a hint of a memory.

“It’s a pub in London. It’s where the last killing occurred, the Avada.”

Hermione felt the colour drain from her cheeks. A cold was creeping into her fingertips. “Fine. Let’s say Draco was there, he doesn’t have a wand. Not that he would cast a Killing Curse even if did. He couldn’t have been the one to cast it. My wand has been with me the entire time and it sure as hell hasn’t been used for a Killing Curse.”

“We found a wand.”

Hermione felt the wind knocked out of her. 

“We searched Malfoy Manor this morning. There was an heirloom wand hidden in Malfoy’s private room. It was hidden in a panel in the wall. We checked the wand. An Eradication spell was used to cover its spell history.”

Hermione dug her nails into her palms. “That Manor is ancient, I’m sure there are tons of wands hidden around it.”

“We asked Narcissa Malfoy about wands when we arrived for the search. The Malfoys are particular about their magic and their heirlooms. All wands are kept in their vaults. That's when I remembered that I had personally escorted Malfoy to Gringotts.”

The ring on Hermione’s finger suddenly felt heavier. “You were there. Did he have a wand on him?”

Harry shook his head. “I didn’t frisk him after he left his own vault. And you know that it’s not like he has a Trace on him or anything to detect if he’s using magic. That’s not possible.”

“Why can’t you just use Veritaserum on him? Or check his memories?” Hysteria was creeping into her voice.

Harry’s lips were pushed flat, his brows curving downwards. “They attempted to use Veritaserum for his first trial. Being a skilled Occlumens can negate its effects. As for a Pensive, Lucius tampered with his memory to get out of charges after the first war. With that family history, the Ministry didn’t think his memories could be trusted. Especially after your marriage.”

Hermione’s eyes shot to Harry. “My marriage?”

Harry looked shamefaced. “I’m sorry, Hermione. I told them there is no way you would do it, that your track record with the Ministry was proof enough that you would never do it but– well with your history of memory charms with your parents– they don’t think looking at his memories would be reliable.”

Hermione audibly swallowed, the lump in her throat growing by the second. They wouldn’t look at his memories for evidence that he was innocent. Because of her.

Hermione knew that even without her the Ministry would have had sound reasoning for not using a Pensieve. 

She ached. 

“Right. That makes sense. That’s reasonable, I suppose.” She couldn’t look him in the eye as she stared at a half-crumbled biscuit on her plate. Right then Ginny walked in in a bathrobe. 

It was evening once more. Hermione hadn’t been able to bear going to the cottage yet and had come back to Grimmauld after getting nowhere with Draco. After penning a letter to Lydia that she would need to take some time off, she had Flooed straight back and had paced the halls, waiting for Harry to return for the evening. 

“Harry, the bath is free.” Ginny had tried to comfort Hermione but had left to run errands at Hermione’s insistence. She hadn’t wanted to be around anyone when she had left the Ministry. Left Draco.

He smiled at his wife before glancing back to Hermione, an unspoken question in his eyes. 

“Thanks for talking to me, Harry. I appreciate it.”

He bit his lip for a moment before stretching his arms and rising to his feet. He peered back once more before disappearing into the hall. 

Ginny took her husband's chair and wrapped her hands around his still-warm mug, taking a sip. She stared at Hermione, concern apparent in her eyes. “Hey.”

Hermione didn’t look up from the biscuit. “Hi.”

“Did you see Draco? Is he alright?”

Hermione didn’t move. “I saw him.” 

“Did something happen?”

“He claimed that our marriage was a game to him that saved him from the Kiss. That he pretended to care for me so I’d continue to protect him from the Ministry but that ended when he was arrested again. Now he says the game is over. Apparently, he was offered life in Azkaban instead of the Kiss and that’s enough for him to stop. He wants me to stop trying to help him because he’s afraid that it’ll somehow mess up the offer.”

Setting her mug down with a slosh, Ginny baulked. “Oh, Hermione.”

Hermione hated the pity that dripped off her name. She had survived the Cruciatus, she could survive the misguided intentions of a stupid boy. “He’s lying. I know he is. He’s trying to protect me. He’s trying to push me away. I’m not going to let them take him.”

Ginny’s face filled with concern. “I know you said things had changed into more but- I mean is there any chance he’s telling the truth now? Don’t hex me for saying it, but that kind of seems like a Malfoy thing to do.”

Hermione looked up, glaring at her friend. “You don’t know him, Ginny. Just because you had one dinner together, where he stood up for me, I might add, doesn’t mean you know him.”

Shame immediately coloured Ginny’s cheeks. “I’m sorry. You’re right, that was unfair of me.”

The exhaustion in Hermione’s body made every movement feel like it was lagging a second behind.  

“You look really tired. Maybe you should crash here. We can keep you company while things get sorted?” Ginny’s invitation was so sincere as she reached over and rubbed the back of Hermione’s hand. 

Still, Hermione found herself shaking her head. “Thanks, Gin, but I need to get back to Crookshanks. He’s been alone all day as is.” 

When she realised she would be heading to the Ministry that morning, she had gone home to change and make sure he had enough food and water.

She wanted to go back to her cottage. Even if her home wasn’t there anymore. 

“Sure. Want me to pack some food for you to take in case you get hungry?” 

She accepted the canvas bag filled to the brim with more food than Hermione could eat in three days. The weight of the bag felt grounding as she Flooed home. 

The lights were off. 

Hermione didn’t bother turning them on. She cast a stasis charm on the food, too exhausted to put it in the refrigerator. 

She walked to the bedroom. Opening the large jar that sat on her nightstand, she lit bluebell flames, filling the room with an azure glow. Now illuminated, Hermione could see the mussed sheets and the faint indent that was pressed into the mattress on the side Draco slept on. Sitting down, she touched her hand to where the cold material sunk in. 

Had it only been twenty-four hours since they had held each other on the sofa? It felt so much longer, like Hermione had lived a week in that time. 

She lay down in the centre of the bed. Draco’s pillow still smelled of him, a mixture of the shampoo she had purchased for him and a spicy cologne that Tippi had brought along with the clothes from Theo’s. Closing her eyes, Hermione pretended to hear the muffled sound of bare feet against wooden floors in the kitchen and the gentle clink of mugs being taken out of the cupboard. She imagined she could hear too much cat food being poured into a bowl. 

Curling her arms and legs into herself, save for the hand that rested where a warm body should have been, Hermione fell asleep pretending that at any moment she would hear the door click shut and feel long limbs entwining themselves with hers.

The only Draco in the room that night twinkled in the enchanted sky above her.  

Notes:

Chapter 25! Things are happening!

Thank you for all the love and support! All the comments and conversations between ya'll make my day!

Thank you to rompeprop and noxhunter, as always. I need to guidance and ya'll are the best.

This was partially written while I let my toddler wash the dishes in the sink. I swear she thinks it's a blast. Kids are weird.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 26

Notes:

Just a quick note! A new tag has been added (we are looking at what happened to Cora Jones) so please be aware and proceed with caution.

Thank you!
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
“He’s refusing to see me.” 

Theo stared at her, his jaw twitching, before he took another swig of his firewhiskey. At half ten it was far too early to be drinking, but Hermione couldn’t bring herself to chastise him. 

She had left for the Ministry early after waking from a nightmare featuring a bruised and battered Draco, his cropping of short blonde locks replaced by scabbed bare skin. She didn’t think he would change his mind from their previous encounter, but she just needed to make sure he was alright. 

When she had tried to make an appointment to see him, she had been informed that he was refusing visits from her indefinitely. Remembering the punch of shock as she stared at the stone-faced Auror behind the window before mechanically walking through the Ministry still made her queasy. 

“He’s refusing to see me as well. That wanker.”

“Watch it.” Hermione agreed with the sentiment but the need to defend her husband bubbled up instinctively. Sure, he was a wanker, but he was her wanker. Even if he was being awful.

That wanker.

“Finally decided to accept the feelings that have been so blatantly obvious to the rest of us. Honestly, I’m glad for it. I need someone in your marriage keeping a level head when Draco has set his mind on being self-sacrificing. Now tell me, how far off is our dear boy?”

“It was terrible, Theo. The Draco I know just disappeared. He acted like that same nasty Malfoy from school. He says it’s all been fake. He said he played the victim to manipulate me into supporting and protecting him, but now that he isn’t facing the Kiss, he doesn’t need to pretend anymore. It’s ridiculous.”

Theo sighed again, bringing his chilled crystal glass to his brow. “That’s not ideal.”

Hermione scoffed. “Ideal? He’s facing murder charges and he’s refusing to see anyone who remotely cares about him! Harry says half the Ministry is gleefully waiting to see him thrown back in Azkaban. Did you see today’s Prophet? Death Eater Habits Die Hard: Draco Lucius Malfoy Facing Muggle Murder Charges.”

Hermione felt her lip curl as she thought back to the photograph of Draco, handcuffed and being led through the Ministry. She had borrowed Harry’s invisibility cloak to avoid the ravenous media. 

“The last thing we need is both of you locked up. Take the cloak before you rightfully hex one of these animals.”

She had been hesitant to accept at first, wanting to show that she was unafraid of supporting her husband, but after witnessing the horde swarm Anthony Goldstein from the safety of invisibility, she gave Harry a silent thanks.

“I saw. It’s not even catchy, those treacherous bastards.”

“This isn’t a joke, Theo.”

“I know. I’m not laughing.” His eyes were flat, his face grim. 

“They won’t get away with this. I know it’s Codsworth; it’s been Codsworth. I just have to figure out why he’s doing it and prove he’s had it out for Draco this entire time. And I will figure it out.” Her voice was low. 

Theo shot her a half smile. “I really am thankful you’re on our side this time around. You’re a force to be reckoned with. It’s about damn time Draco had someone besides Pansy, Blaise, and me in his corner.”

“You don’t seem surprised that my relationship has changed.”

“It’s because I’m not surprised.”

Hermione tilted her head. “That’s interesting. Plenty of other people were.”

“What can I say? I’m an anomaly.” His eyes slid where she was in his periphery before chuckling. “Fine. While I didn’t know for certain you two would consider each other as more than just business partners, I had a strong hunch.”

“How? Not even my close friends seemed to have seen it coming.”

“You mean Potter and Weasley? I’m not particularly surprised. Potter ended up with his wife because she did all the heavy lifting. And Weasley was about as lost as you could get during school, especially about women. Of course they wouldn’t have seen it.”

“Wouldn’t have seen what?”

Theo, whose face still carried those shadows of deep worry, smiled at Hermione.  

“Are you going to pretend like there hasn’t been something there since school? Really?”

Hermione flushed but didn’t say a word.

“Oh, now that really is funny. You two are so similar. Always have been, you know. I always thought if it hadn’t been for the war, you would have found each other at some point.”

“Now, that’s a little much. Our only interactions at school involved him throwing slurs at me. He said he hoped it was me who was killed by the Basilisk during second year, or did you not know that charming little fact?”

“I remember. He said a lot of things in front of other people. I’m sure he even meant some of it too. But he was splintering from those beliefs, even as a child. You may not have seen it for what it was at the time. Merlin’s Beard, he didn’t even see it.”

“You mean the Library?” Hermione had never allowed herself to bring up those private moments. 

“Yes, I’m talking about the Library. He stared at you more than he complained about you which is saying a lot.”

“That hardly means anything. We studied in the Library at the same time. Sometimes he stared. That hardly counts for anything.”

“For a boy who had been raised to hate anyone like you, to not even stand being in the same room as someone like you, it’s everything.”

Hermione caught a stray curl in her fingers, recalling the way the brown hair looked wrapped around a long pale finger. “So, him staring at me convinced you that we were destined to be together?”

“There’s more of course. The Quidditch World Cup.”

“I remember him taunting me about my knickers showing if I was caught by Death Eaters.”

“Did you know I was there? My father took me. Draco kept talking about how you shouldn’t be there. At first, I thought he meant Muggleborns in general until the Death Eater festivities began. We had been told to stay in the tent. My father wanted us to get some practice in on Muggles, but Lucius has promised Narcissa to keep us inside. He was jittery, couldn’t stop shaking his legs and pacing around. He kept mumbling about stupid Potter and Weasley bringing you and then before I knew it, he was running into the mayhem. I chased after him, but he ended up in the tree line. He looked like he was searching for someone. I was terrified my father would find me out after he expressly ordered me to stay. I was hiding behind a tree when Draco warned you about the attacks.”

“He seemed like he was enjoying himself.”

“You didn’t see him sink to the ground when you left. You also didn't see him get in trouble when Lucius found us trying to get back to the tent. Draco told him I had tried to stop him; said he wanted to see to show. Old Lucius ended up being proud his son was so eager to join. Can you imagine wanting your child involved?”

Hermione felt nauseous. 

“Then there was the night at the Manor.”

Hermione’s stomach dropped. “What happened after that night? We’ve never– I’ve never asked.”

Theo’s face blanched. He took another long sip from his glass, sucking his teeth after he pulled the fine crystal away from his lips. 

“There was very little room for more failure at that point. They were nearly certain it was you, they just needed Draco to confirm. You don’t stare at someone for years and suddenly not remember what they looked like. When you escaped, Voldemort was… not pleased. And neither was Bellatrix after she was reprimanded by the Dark Lord. Even when he was still recovering from the Cruciatus, he asked me if I had heard anything about you, if anyone had caught you again. 

"He cried, you know? When he told me about his aunt torturing you and how he just stood and watched. He couldn’t stop crying. Draco always was a bit of a cry-baby. So, yeah. Maybe it was hard for you to see. It was hard for even Draco to see, but it was there. Even through prejudice, war, and time, it was there.” 

He paused, gripping the glass in his hand tighter. “What do we do, Hermione?”

Hermione swallowed hard, the pressure in her oesophagus feeling absolute. Tears began to slip from the corners of her eyes. The reality of the situation crashed around her like burning debris. 

Theo’s lips quivered as his eyes followed the tear trails down her face, his cheek hollowing as he bit the inner flesh. 

Hermione reached out and grabbed his hands. They shook under her touch. “Anything we have to. We do whatever it takes to get him out.”

“What if he doesn’t let us?” Theo’s voice cracked.

“I don’t need Draco’s permission. Sometimes we make choices to protect those we love.” Draco’s words came out of her mouth so easily. 

He nodded, pulling his upper lip into his mouth as it trembled. 

~~

Two days passed. Hermione attempted to visit Draco each morning and each morning she was denied. 

She never let her disappointment or fear show on her features, but inside the worry burned a hole in her gut like acid.

Harry refused to give any more information. Once he admitted that he was worried he would be taken off the case due to a conflict of interest, Hermione stopped demanding information from him. 

She felt wholly useless. Her letters to the Wizengamot went unanswered. She had even visited the Burrow to talk to Arthur, who had promised to find out what he could with a pitying look in his eyes. 

She ended her nights curled up in bed, Draco’s scent in his pillow fainter with every day, despite the Stasis charm she had placed on it. Under the cover of night, she looped his broken confession in her sitting room and compared it to the cruel Draco at the Ministry. The contrast was so severe it felt impossible for it to be the same person. Hermione needed answers. She needed something. 

So, she found herself once more at the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. 

“I’m sorry. Mr. Malfoy is refusing any visitors.”

“I’m his wife, Hermione Malfoy. I need to speak to my husband; this is ridiculous!”

The Auror sighed, visibly exasperated. “As I’ve told you before, if an inmate doesn’t want visitors, there’s nothing I can do.”

Hermione was seconds from Confunding the frustrating, albeit innocent Auror, when she felt a hand on her shoulder. 

“Hey, Gafford. How’s the wife?” Ron’s warm voice came from behind her. 

“Nice to see you, Ron. Anne is doing great, thanks for asking.”

“Oh, well that’s good to hear.”

“I was just telling Mrs. Malfoy here that her husband is still not receiving visitors and that exceptions cannot be made.”

“I’m sure Hermione is very understanding. I’ll see her out. Have a great day, Gifford, give Anne a hello for me.”

Ron began to pull her away from the Auror.

“Ronald– stop– get your hands off me!” 

Ron ushered her to a small alcove before releasing her. 

“Tell me what the hell that was or so help me, I will sic a fleet of conjured birds on you. Again. ”

Ron backed away; hands raised in a gesture of surrender. “I’m sorry. I just needed to get you out quickly.”

“So that was your brilliant idea? Just speak over me and then physically force me. You should work on your negotiation tactics.”

Ron winced before nodding. “I didn’t plan or exit that very well. I’m sorry.”

Hermione stared at his apologetic smile before she stowed her wand back into her robe. “Fine. What was so important anyways?”

Ron’s face quickly became grim. “I wanted to talk to you about Malfoy.”

Hermione’s stomach dropped. “What’s happened? Is Draco alright?”

“He’s fine. Well, as fine as he can be.”

She exhaled, steadying herself against a cold wall as the rush of adrenaline made her dizzy. “Oh, thank Merlin.” 

Hermione peered at Ron. “If he’s alright, then what do you need to talk to me about?”

Ron blinked, shifting his weight between his feet. “I’ve heard rumours that you’ve been coming to the Ministry daily, demanding to see him and telling anyone who will listen that he’s innocent.”

“That’s because I have been demanding to see him. And Draco is innocent.”

Ron closed his eyes briefly before opening them and fixing his gaze on Hermione. “Hermione, I know that you have had a lot of feelings for Malfoy ever since your– marriage, but you can’t just close your eyes to the evidence.”

“I haven’t closed my eyes to the evidence. I know how it looks but I also know that Draco hasn’t killed anyone. Was he stupidly getting into drunken fights? Yes. But not even you can think he’s capable of killing someone. He was a bully, not a murderer. Harry was a firsthand witness of his inability to kill! Or did you forget that he disobeyed orders from Tom at the expense of himself and his family!”

“He’s not a child anymore, Hermione. Yeah, he couldn’t kill the greatest wizard of our time, but that’s very different from random Muggles at pubs. He also had time to learn during the war. He had a good teacher.”

“He didn’t want to hurt people.”

“Do you really think you know him that well? Has he told you about Cora Jones?”

Hermione balled her hands into fists. “He did. He explained everything.”

“So, you know he tortured her and then cast the blow that killed her? And you’re still defending him?”

Hermione took a step closer. “Not that I need to defend myself to you, but Draco did it to spare her. Greyback was after her. He saved her from a far worse fate.”

Ron held her eyes steadfast. “I knew you were in the middle of all of this, but I guess I didn’t realise how deep. Fine. I figured it would be difficult for you to see that maybe Malfoy is just guilty. That’s why I pulled you away from Gifford. I need to show you something.”

~~

She followed Ron through the sparsely occupied halls of the ninth floor. 

Hermione rarely had reason to visit the ninth floor and though they looked different in the day, the corridors still raised the hairs on her arms at the memory of their fateful visit in fifth year. 

“I’m sorry again for earlier, but I wanted to show you this and now is the least busy time.”

“Where are we even going?”

“You’ll see soon.”

They walked quietly and quickly, keeping their heads down as they passed a short man with thick-rimmed glasses.

Finally, they arrived in front of a nondescript black door. After glancing down either direction of the hallway, Ron pushed the door open, Hermione right behind him.

The room was simple. 

The walls were made of black tile, and nothing decorated them. The only items were a single wooden chair and a marble podium fitted with a silver basin in the centre. 

A Pensieve. 

“We have to be quick. No one is scheduled to be reviewing memories until this afternoon, but I don’t want to risk getting caught. Bringing you here isn’t exactly prohibited, but it is highly frowned upon.”

Ron rummaged through his robes before pulling out a small glass vial. A label with precise cursive covered the thin glass. 

Edward Wright: Memory 5.

“What’s that?” 

“It’s a memory from a wizard who was held captive at Malfoy Manor. You need to see this. You’re defending Malfoy based on the idea that he’s a good man-”

“He is a good man. I’ve been living with him. I know him.”

Ron lifted the vial between them tauntingly. “If you really know him, seeing this memory won’t change your mind. You should have nothing to worry about.”

As much as she wanted to storm out of the room, memory be damned, the temptation of the glowing vial proved to be too much. “What’s the memory of?”

“Cora Jones’ death.”

She stepped towards the podium and poured the contents into the Pensieve. Wisps of light and liquid swirled in the silver basin before a haze of glowing tendrils started to rise from the pool. Hermione glanced at Ron, who smiled reassuringly at her. Carved runes and encrusted stones decorated the marble podium, digging into her hands as balanced herself before dipping her head into the glowing contents. 

Entering a Pensieve felt like falling into a dream.

The sensation of gravity pulled at Hermione, blurs of shadows passing around her as she fell, deeper and deeper until suddenly she was no longer falling, she was standing. 

Hermione was in a room. A room she could recognise. 

Her feet rested on checked floors and large windows revealed the inky darkness of night. 

She was standing in Malfoy Manor. 

“Is this the Blood Traitor?” A familiar voice that made Hermione’s skin crawl yanked Hermione from her thoughts. Bellatrix stood to the left of her, thick curls falling around her shoulders, a cruel grin on her face.

Two dishevelled men dragged a woman in by her arms from the hall. The woman was covered in grime, the tips of her bare feet scraping against the expensive floors. 

“It is. Her Mudblood husband died this morning. Stunk up the dungeons with that foul leg of his.” At the mention of her husband, the woman whimpered harder, her long dark hair lying limply around her hung head.

Cora Jones had been a beautiful bride. The broken woman before Hermione looked almost unrecognisable. 

The men dropped the woman to the floor in a crumpled pile. She landed hard, her small hands unable to keep her head from hitting the ground with a thud. Her nails were torn and bloodied, as if she had scratched at stone until they broke. 

“Ahh, dear nephew. Thank you for joining us.”

Hermione whipped her head and watched as Draco smoothly entered the room. 

She sucked in a breath. 

He looked so young. His hair was longer, swept to the side as she had remembered from school. While still tall, he was shorter than the Draco she knew. He wore a black crisp suit and a flat face. 

As he walked by Hermione reached out a hand, her fingertips moving through him like a cool mist. 

“You called, Aunt.” Draco sounded bored as he glanced at the woman that laid in a pile. 

“Draco, I believe it’s time to push forward in your education. This filth here no longer has a use, so I thought why not give its life some meaning.”

“Shouldn’t the new captive be taken to the dungeon first?” He looked towards Hermione for a moment where Edward Wright stood, his flat grey eyes making her heart beat erratically.

“He will, but I think this could be a good lesson to be truthful during their stay with us. Now come, Draco.”

Draco walked to his aunt, stopping in front of her where she pointed with her wand.

“As we have practised before, Draco. You need to mean it for an Unforgivable. Your anger, your hatred, your intent…fuel the magic. Crucio!” A beam of red shot from Bellatrix’s wand. 

A blood curdling scream ripped from Cora but ended a moment later. 

“See, Draco? Intent. Now you try.”

He didn’t move immediately, just stared at the sprawled woman who was panting now. Hermione saw his jaw set before he raised his wand. 

“Crucio.”

While Bellatrix’s spell was a blast of red, Draco’s was a puff. Cora whined loudly, her hands pressing into the floor. When the puff of light dissipated, she slumped back to the ground. 

Chittering from the two Death Eaters that brought Cora in were cut off by a sharp glance from Bellatrix. 

“It’s quite disappointing that you haven’t been able to produce a substantial Cruciatus on anything more sentient than a common rabbit, but in case you have forgotten, this thing is an animal.”

“Of course not, Aunt Bella. It even smells like an animal.”

Hermione flinched as he scrunched his nose. 

“I think perhaps you need a reminder that Blood Traitors and Mudbloods have only one purpose. I feel like I’m getting a bit rusty on my Severing Charm. Why don’t we take turns until you feel properly motivated? Diffindo.” 

Cora screamed as a gash appeared on her shoulder. The spell cleanly sliced through her ratty shirt, the material darkening as blood began to seep through it.

Draco stared as drops of blood splattered to the floor as he spoke. “Now it’s got its dirty blood on the marble.”

Bellatrix snorted before nudging his wand arm upwards. 

Draco’s jaw clenched for a moment. “Crucio.”

The pulse of light was brighter this time, but still paled in comparison to his aunt’s. Cora’s shoulders tensed; her hand still pressed against her arm. When the curse ended, her body went limp. Strands of hair were now slick against her forehead. Her head was turned to the side, facing Hermione. Tears were trailing down her cheeks. 

Hermione felt ill. She wished she could cast a Protego, anything, to stop what was happening. 

“Please. Please sto–” Cora’s mumbled plea turned into another scream. This time, Bellatrix’s Diffiendo tore through her thigh. Cora reached her already blood-covered hand to the new wound.

This went on for some minutes, but it felt like an hour to Hermione. Crucio, Diffindo, Crucio, Diffindo, until Draco was left with sweat shining on his brow and breathless and Cora was left in a small puddle of blood. 

Hermione stood frozen, praying for Draco to save the woman even though she knew it wasn’t coming. 

“Draco, you aren’t trying hard enough.” Bellatrix looked visibly annoyed. Her eyes had a mania in them that made Hermione’s skin crawl. She watched as the witch stepped closer to the woman. “You know, I’ve always wondered how long a person could live without any of their limbs.”

“It took her husband three weeks to finally stop fighting the inevitable with half his leg gone. My guess is less time than that.” Draco’s voice was cruel. Hermione had expected the flat tone that typically accompanied his Occlumency, but instead his words sounded derisive. “Maybe you should start with an arm and go from there.” 

Hermione’s stomach churned violently. She didn’t want to see any more. This was so different from how she had pictured the scenario. She hadn’t expected Draco to be so callous. 

“But before you cut off limbs, it’s my turn. You mustn’t break the rules to your own game, Aunt Bella.”

Bellatrix curled a lip as she stared at Cora like she was an insect she was ripping the wings off of before turning to Draco. She motioned for him to continue. 

Draco straightened his shoulders. Somehow even sweaty he appeared calm and at ease as he raised his wand. “Crucio!”

The jet of red light was almost blinding in the dim room. Cora, who now lay on her back, arched as the curse hit her. Only her head and toes stayed in contact with the hard floor. A scream ripped from Cora’s chest. 

Hermione knew that scream. She had felt that same scream tear at her own vocal cords in this very house. Even though the scene was just a memory, Hermione couldn’t help but want to comfort the poor woman. 

Hermione tried to scream at Draco to stop the curse, but no sound came out. A strange high pitch squeal was ringing in her ears.

Finally, Cora’s body went limp. Foamy spit trailed down her chin, wet ragged gasps replacing screams. 

It took a moment for Hermione to realise the high pitch squeal had been Bellatrix’s cry of delight. She clapped her hands jumping in place, a grin that would have been beautiful if it wasn’t so poisonous stretched across her face. “Yes! That was beautiful! I knew you could learn, nephew! I always knew you had it in you!”

The words rang through Hermione’s head as she stared at the edges of the pool of blood expanding. I always knew you had it in you.

“Now, what do we have here?” The low half-snarled voice of Greyback made Hermione look up. The monster slunk into the room. While he was in human form, his nails remained long, and his appearance was unkempt. 

“Practice. Sweet Draco finally cast a most impressive Cruciatus. You just missed the show, it was delightful.” The pride in Bellatrix’s voice was clear.

“So, the little Master of the House was finally able to play with the grownups. Is she important?”

“No. A Blood Traitor.” Draco sounded uninterested.

Greyback stalked to Cora’s side. He leered at the woman, his long tongue slithering out to lick the smeared blood on her cheek. “And so sweet. Can I have her?”

“You’ll have to ask Draco.” 

Say no, please say no. 

“Why not? I’m done with her.” 

Hermione’s heart felt like it was suffocating. He hadn’t told her that he had been the one to agree to giving Cora to Greyback.

Greyback began to reach for the woman, but Bellatrix stepped forward before he made contact. “I need a moment with you first. Rowle too. I think he’s in the study. You can have the Blood Traitor in a moment when we are done, it won’t take long. Draco will keep an eye on her.”

Greyback was looming over Cora, seconds away from sinking his teeth into her shoulder. At Bellatrix’s words, he snapped his jaw shut frustratedly and followed Bellatrix out of the room.

Cora opened her eyes and stared at him. Draco stared back. Hermione had expected fear, horror, shame, but what appeared on Draco’s face was hatred, maybe even disgust. His brows pulled low over hardened eyes. His nostrils flared and his upper lip curled. 

“Don't look at me.” 

Draco’s voice sounded like ice. It was the only time he had addressed Cora directly. The witch continued to stare, her brown eyes pleading. 

“Stop. Looking. At. Me.” 

“I said stop looking at me with those stupid fucking brown eyes!”

Hermione flinched. 

His eyes were wild, his brows furrowed so low. His mouth was pulled into a snarl, white teeth she had seen covered in both blood and chocolate, bared and spittle flew. She had never seen him so angry, like a rabid animal looking for its next victim. 

It terrified her and broke her heart at the same time. 

Suddenly footsteps could be heard in the hall.

Draco held his wand high and cast the Avada, a thick green light so blinding, Hermione had to shut her eyes. 

And then Cora Jones was gone. 

Draco was panting, his mouth a deep frown. His wand hung limply at his side. Muffled choking sounds could be heard near Hermione. She guessed it was Edward Wright. Draco glanced to where the man was and cast a Silencing charm right as the door opened. 

“What the fuck happened?” Greyback was fuming, his shoulders rapidly rising and falling with his breathing. 

“She displeased me.” 

Hermione stared in horror as the edges of the memory became blurry. She gasped as she yanked her head out of the Pensieve. Bile had accumulated in her throat, and she coughed at the burn. 

“So, you saw.” Ron’s calm voice came from behind her. “That’s the Malfoy you’re defending. He tortured a woman. And maybe he only killed her to save her from Greyback, but he’s the one that gave her to him in the first place. You can say he had no choice, that he would have died, but at what point does that no longer justify the pain he caused? Can a truly good person torture and kill to save their own life? Could you? I’ve seen that memory. He didn’t look ashamed. He looked furious.”

Hermione wanted to defend Draco, but the look on his face as he screamed at Cora to close her eyes haunted her. 

“You don’t have to say anything. Just think about it, Hermione. Anyway, we should go. I don’t want to have to explain why we are here to anyone”

They left the room, the awful memory safely back in the vial, and once more walked through the hallways of the Ministry. With every step, Hermione found it harder and harder to take a deep breath. The walls were undulating, and the room was beginning to spin. She needed to get out. 

“Oi! Ron!” Susan Bones walked up to them. “I need to speak with you for a moment. I’m sorry to bother you, but it’s kind of urgent.” She glanced at Hermione and did a double-take, her eyes growing wide. “Oh, Hermione. I’m– I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to interrupt.”

Hermione, who currently felt like the world was collapsing around her, shook her head. “No. It’s alright. I needed to be going anyway. Ronald, I’ll see myself out.” 

Without waiting for a reply, Hermione turned and left. She heard Ron call her name but ignored it.  

As quickly as she could, Hermione walked to the Atrium. Her head was spinning. The memory had been so visceral, Hermione could have sworn she could smell the blood Cora lay in. She wanted to talk to Draco so badly it hurt, to ask him about what she had witnessed, to beg him to make it make sense to her. Without thinking about it, Hermione stepped into the first Floo she saw and threw the powder, whisking herself away from the Ministry.

 

~~

Hermione Flooed into the large sitting room of Nott Manor, stepping out the moment her feet found solid ground. 

“Theo!” Her voice belted out, echoing out in the open room. “Theo!”

Tippi popped into the room, wisps of smoke floating beside her. “Miss? What is happenings for such a loud sound?”

“Tippi, is Theo home? 

“No, Miss. Master Theo is visiting Mistress Malfoy at Malfoy Manor. I is not knowing when he shall be back.”

Hermione needed to talk to Theo. 

She quickly stepped back into the fireplace and Flooed to Malfoy Manor, desperate for information. 

Hermione burst from the fireplace. She froze for a moment, suddenly confronted with the same room she had watched a memory of a woman dying in not even an hour earlier.

A pop dragged from her thoughts. “Miss Malfoy, Fig was not expecting you. Other Madam is busy. I can get you a drink while you is waiting?”

“I’m sorry, Fig, but I know Theo is here. I need to speak with him.” Hermione began to head towards the hall that led to the dining room, hoping her limited knowledge of the layout would guide her. 

“No, Miss, I don’t think Madam wants visitors–” Fig’s voice faded away as Hermione practically sprinted. She thought she heard muffled talking coming further down the hall. 

The door was partially opened, and the voices became louder as she stepped closed. 

“What do you mean he’s refusing to see her? The stay only works if they remain married for five years. Even if he does get out of this, she could go around and divorce him, sending him right back! They need to remain married for the entirety of the five years.”

“I am aware of that, but she is trying the best she can. She cares for him. Loves him, even if she’s too stubborn to admit as much.”

Hermione froze, a hand hovering above the door handle.

“That does us little good if he squanders those affections now. Draco alive and in love with a Muggleborn is preferable to him not being alive at all. You know, when I told you about the Gallows Marriage Law, I expected someone more suitable to have been chosen, such as Miss Parkinson.”

“I told you, Draco wouldn’t have accepted from Pansy, not at the risk of Blaise losing his inheritance. I chose Hermione because I knew she would agree. We were lucky she approached me first before I had to plan a run-in. You may not approve of her blood, but not many people in this world would have done what she has for someone with Draco’s past.”

Hermione remained frozen, her hand trembling. All the anxiety that had been rising since the moment she awoke to an empty home and a note, peaked at that exact moment. She heard a pop. 

“Miss Hermione is here!” Fig’s frantic voice came from the room. No movement or sounds came from the room. Hermione surged forward, slamming the door open.

Three faces stared at her in shock.

“I seemed to have missed the invite for a family meeting.” She sounded calmer to her ears than expected. 

Theo looked horrified. Narcissa appeared surprised but her features quickly smoothed to neutral. “Thank you, Fig. You may leave us.”

The house-elf looked nervously around the room before disappearing. 

“We weren’t expecting you, Miss Granger.”

Hermione smiled. “Given the subject matter of your discussion, I can tell.”

“Hermione, please, I can explain–”

She held up her hand. “You know, I think I’ve let the two of you speak more than enough. You. You said you found out about the Gallows Marriage Law through a connection. You lied.”

Theo’s eyes were wide. “I didn’t lie. She was the connection. The manuscript was in the Malfoy Library.” 

“Somehow you didn’t think it was necessary to tell me it was Draco’s mother who found the law?”

“I didn’t want you to think we were somehow tricking you.”

Hermione scoffed. “Of course. You hiding the fact that you specifically came to me with the law knowing my conscience wouldn’t allow me to say no, isn’t trickery at all. You didn’t actually give me all the facts; you manoeuvred the truth until I agreed. I thought you were my friend.”

“Hermione, I am your–”

“And you.” She turned to her mother-in-law. “You knew why I married him and yet you acted so surprised when we first met. Your acting skills might even be better than your son’s.” Hermione’s voice was laced with contempt. 

Narcissa’s mouth flattened. “I did provide the law to Theo. I did not know that you would be the one to marry my son. My shock at the surprising news was, in fact, real.”

“Was it your shock or your prejudice? You can hide behind your thinly veiled remarks, but in the end, you’re the same blood purist you always were. Now you just keep it inside the house because it’s no longer fashionable to be a bigot. You’re ridiculous. I was the one to save Draco’s life and you still can’t see me as anything more than the dirt beneath your feet. It must have eaten away at you. Knowing that your title, your money, your blood couldn’t save him. In the end, it was nothing but a filthy Mudblood. Next time you look at the family tree and see my name sullying the parchment, remember you were bested by me.”

She took a step towards Theo. He stepped back quickly, almost losing his footing, and she halted her approach. “You didn’t have to lie. I would have helped you if you had told me the truth, but I guess neither of you know me very well.” 

“Hermione, wait. You obviously came here because something happened. Are you alright?”

Hermione stared at Theo before shaking her head. “I came here looking for a friend to help me figure out what’s been real and what’s been lies in this situation. I thought you were that person. I was wrong. I’ll see myself out.”

She held her chin high and turned to go. 

Nobody followed her down the hallway or stopped her from entering the Floo. 

Hermione arrived at the cottage, her anger burning inside her veins. She was angry with Ron, with Narcissa, Theo, Draco. Her fury had nowhere to go, it just built and built until it was a raging fire. Hermione reached for a mug that sat on the coffee table and flung it across the room. 

The ceramic fractured apart, and as she watched the shards scatter across the floor, Hermione felt her rage break as well.

Only cold loneliness remained.

As Hermione waved her wand to gather the sharp slivers, she could almost imagine a tall figure in grey trackies coming to greet her. 

He would ask her how her day had been, if she had slapped anyone, since it was reserved for him alone, if she had eaten. Then she would go undress and he would follow, watching her change into comfier clothes. She would joke if sex was the only thing he thought about, and he would quip, if she was so lucky to have as beautiful a bride as he does, she would think about sex a lot too. After dinner and tea, they would read on the sofa until she would yawn, and he would pull the book from her hands before telling her it was time for bed. Once they were all tucked in, he would curl himself around her, like a vine searching for the light, until they both fell asleep. 

It had been a fleeting moment, their shared time, but in the now unfamiliar solitude of her home, she missed it all the same.

Nobody was there to greet Hermione. 

Notes:

Yay! Chapter 26! This is going by so quickly!!!

Thank you to everyone who has read and supported the fic! Your comments and love are so SO appreciated. Sorry that I repay you with emotional damage lol

Rompeprop and noxhunter, ya'll are SO amazing! Thank you for all the time and support!

This was written while eating way too much pizza. I got a terrible stomach ache but it was worth it. No regrets. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 27

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione hadn’t considered what life after marriage would resemble before she agreed to save Draco. It felt like there was only one logical sequence of events. Her life would go back to exactly what it had been before him. Her job, her small cottage, her friends, all the same. 

Hermione now understood what after was like. 

She lay alone in her bed that now felt too large. When her feet touched the wooden floors, the chill of the floorboards ran up her spine. She stood for a moment and allowed herself to adjust to the silence. Walking to the kitchen, Hermione wrapped her arms around herself, warding off the September chill. 

Today was her birthday. 

She never made a big fuss about her birthday, especially after she had Obliviated her parents. Her father had always made sure to get her mother a bouquet on Hermione’s birthday. A thank you, he would say, for making him a father and bringing Hermione into the world. 

She still bought a bouquet every year and set it in her kitchen, her own personal thank you and apology. 

The beautiful arrangement of asters, dahlias, and cornflowers sat on her kitchen counter, but their beauty did little to cheer Hermione up. 

Her friends had wanted to throw her a small get together, filled with drinks and presents but the idea of a celebration felt so far away. She hadn’t responded to their Owls and had blocked her Floo. 

They would worry for her, but she couldn’t bring herself to pretend to be okay for them. 

Hermione rummaged through the cabinet and pulled out a bottle of champagne. Theo had handed it to her before they had left his home after her marriage to Draco. She thought it had been a questionable parting gift at the time but now she was thankful. 

Champagne to celebrate her birthday. Alone.

It was two in the afternoon which made it around eleven in the evening in Australia. Plenty late enough to start drinking. 

She grabbed her wand and popped the cork. Grabbing a mug, she quickly filled it with champagne and took a sip. It was crisp and delicious. She wasn’t entirely sure, but it tasted like the champagne she had been served by Blaise the day of her nuptials. Hermione took a large gulp, pushing past the way the bubbles tickled her nose pleasantly to get to the burn of the alcohol against her throat. 

Crookshanks meowed in the corner. She looked to his bowl knowing it was still partially full. He hadn’t been eating well since Draco’s departure. 

She pet him, his head leaning into the touch. “I know. I miss him too.” 

And she did. She missed him terribly and there was something awful about it. He had lied to her. More than once. That feeling of betrayal hadn’t just disappeared. It was there, boring deeper into her chest. But there hadn’t been time to face it. He had turned himself in, something Hermione knew he had done for her, despite his claims it was all a ‘game’.

Hermione had allowed the wool to be pulled over her eyes. The missing potions and salves, the bruises, his late nights, they had all been there, but she hadn’t wanted to put it together. He had looked at her with his silver eyes, two large mirrors, and she had seen her own reflection in them. Her gut had told her that was the real him despite the signs her brain chose to ignore. It didn’t make the hurt of his lies any less painful. 

After a refill of her mug, Hermione wandered the cottage. The copy of Matilda still sat in the sitting room, the torn parchment note, crumped and worn from the amount of time it had spent in between Hermione’s fingers as she read and reread the words.

She found herself walking to the guestroom. She hadn’t entered the room since Draco’s disappearance. Part of her had wanted to rip it apart and search for the evidence of his duplicity, but she had made it into the doorframe and couldn’t bring herself to enter, her anger snuffed out by the heavy loneliness of the empty room. 

It was bright enough now that she didn’t need to turn a light on.

The space was clean and organised. It appeared much as it had before he had moved in, but Hermione knew that traces of him were woven in. A pair of trackies sat folded on the end of the bed. A small stack of books was piled on the bedside table. 

She walked to the wardrobe. He had awkwardly asked her to add an extension charm on it to allow for his very generous wardrobe provided by Theo. Hermione had quipped that all they needed was a lion to go with her, a witch, and the expanded wardrobe. He had quirked a brow, leading her to explain the book she was referencing. He had rolled his eyes but had asked if she owned a copy. (“I suppose learning some of your references would make cohabitation easier”).

Opening the door, Hermione found a collection of beautifully cut and tailored clothing. Sharp suits, butter soft button ups, robes of impeccable craftsmanship. She ran her fingertips across the fabrics. On a shelf near the top, was a stack of carefully folded cotton t-shirts. The juxtaposition of the cheap material next to the beautiful luxury clothing made Hermione laugh. 

She shut the wardrobe and moved to the bedside table. The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe sat on top of the pile of books. Hermione had seen him reading it. The pages and the cover of the book looked pristine. He had held them carefully in his hands, turning the page with enough force to show his interest, but never held a book hard enough to bend the spine. Draco took care of books, much like she did. 

She set the book back down and opened the drawer of the bedside table. Nestled inside was a stack of papers. Hermione carefully pulled them out. A paper crown lay on top. Under it were drawings. One colourful drawing depicted a boy on a broom and a tall stick figure standing below. Another showed a small boy sitting on an older man’s shoulders, both with bright yellow hair with streaks of white crayon running through it. 

Picture after picture, the drawings depicted the man and the boy until Hermione reached the bottom of the stack. The fold lines of the paper and the way it felt soft in her hands made Hermione think this drawing had been opened and closed many times. It showed a group of people. One had long black curls and a gentle smile, another had messy black hair and glasses. Next to that figure was another man with white and yellow hair, standing to the right. In the centre was a boy with white and yellow hair and green eyes. Under the group of people, written in messy childlike handwriting, read My Family. In the corner of the sheet was a blurry discoloured splotch, like drops of water had fallen on the paper, warping the fibre. Hermione felt her throat choke up as she gazed at the pile of treasure her husband had saved. 

Something small fell to the floor. Hermione picked it up and felt her heart drop. 

Hermione had developed the film from her disposable camera after they had visited Andromeda and Teddy. Draco had mentioned in passing they had photographs that didn’t move, (“You have some too, Granger. Eerie things, they’re so still. It’s unnatural”). She showed him the photograph she had taken of his nap on the sofa with a certain feline. He had scoffed and rolled his eyes before pocketing it. It apparently had ended up in his drawer of keepsakes. 

She went to put the drawings back, keeping hold of the photo, when the shift of the now-empty drawer, made a loud clanking sound. Hermione reached in and pulled out empty potion vials. At least five of them. She stared down at the handful of glass. A mixture of Sobriety Potions and Pepper-Ups. 

Hermione had the sudden urge to shatter them against the walls. She clutched the vials tightly before dropping them into the drawer with a loud clatter. She carefully put the drawings back in, ensuring they wouldn’t crease, and shut the drawer.

She was exhausted. 

Still holding the photograph, she picked up her mug and took a large gulp, wanting to drown out the tiny voice in the back of her head that asked how she could be so stupid, so naive, so blinded by her emotions. Draining the last of her cup, Hermione lay on the bed. 

The familiar scent that she had come to recognise as Draco enveloped her as she stared down at the image of him and Crookshanks asleep on the couch. Even with his head shaved and his gaunt cheeks, Hermione felt her stomach drop at his beauty. It made her almost angry. How dare he look peaceful in the photo while she felt anything but. It was an irrational anger that quickly flitted away as she wondered if he was getting any rest at the Ministry in his holding cell. 

She traced her finger across his sleeping features, down his nose, across the shape of his lips. The Draco in the photo was fragile. He was so different from the Draco that had gone on his knees for her in an alley. The Draco that held her, that lifted her, that felt so all-encompassing when he lay his weight on top of her. The Draco that ran his lips across her collarbone, down her stomach, against the back of her neck. 

Hermione's fingers creeped down her stomach. Her cheeks burned and her head felt dizzy from the champagne. She slipped her fingers into the band of her pyjamas and found herself slick. 

She imagined long fingers were touching her instead. 

He would gently delve into her, tracing her up and down slowly while whispering that she was beautiful, soft, perfect . 

Hermione’s breath hitched as she sunk a finger inside of herself. 

No, not her finger, his. 

Draco had perfect rhythm. He once joked after making her see stars that he needed to send a thank you gift to his old piano tutor ( “The old pedagogue liked to rap my knuckles with his wand, but his methods were effective apparently”) . She sighed as the pace quickened. Her heart was beginning to thrum frantically, her pleasure building. 

She was getting close, so close, but her orgasm was evasive. Her fingers weren’t long enough or thick enough. They didn’t touch her the way Draco touched her. 

Quickly, Hermione flipped to her stomach, her face pressed into the duvet. Images of Draco touching himself in this very bed, his face sunk into pillows to muffle his grunts, set fire to her entire body. This new position allowed her to grind against the heel of her hand as her fingers moved in and out, in and out. She pretended that the pressure of the mattress was his weight on her. She rocked against her hand, the pressure building, building, building. She shifted her head to the side and suddenly was hit with that familiar spiciness from an expensive cologne. Hermione shattered apart; the orgasm so strong she felt like she couldn’t catch her breath. 

As she came down, the room suddenly felt darker, the sun dipping low in the sky. There were no tender kisses, no words of awe, no arms that held her tightly like she was the most beautiful thing to behold. Just an empty room in an empty cottage. 

Hermione was aware she was still holding on to the photograph. It now laid crumpled in her hand.

Suddenly the weight of the situation hit her all at once. 

Wiping her hand against her pyjamas, she curled into herself. The room seemed to darken by the minute. Rain began to patter against the glass of the window. She held the photograph to her chest. 

Like how Hermione had pretended that the hand touching her wasn’t her own, she told herself the tears that trailed down her cheeks and dripped on the pillow were drops of water from the storm. 

She fell asleep coated in darkness and rain. 

~~

“Thanks for letting me come over, Ginny. You really didn’t need to take a training break.”

Ginny reached out and held Hermione’s hand. “Of course I’m going to be here for you, Hermione. This is a scary time. I wouldn’t leave you on your own. I wanted to see you on your birthday, but I get why you needed some space.”

Hermione gave her a small smile. She hadn’t been able to bring herself to go to the Ministry. Draco would refuse to see her yet again and she wasn’t sure she could face Ron just yet either. Harry was busy with work and Theo… she wasn’t sure she could see him without wanting to hex him. It felt like the important people in her life were disappearing, one by one.

“How have you been?”

Hermione felt her shoulder sink. “Not great.”

“Harry told me about Draco… he thinks he’s going to plead guilty.”

Hermione knew it of course. Draco had told her himself, but still it felt like a knife to the gut. 

“Why would he do that?” she inquired.

“He’s trying to protect me. I made a Vow to take his place if he ever tried to evade the law.”

“Oh Merlin, so you knew he wouldn’t try to run?”

Hermione shook her head. “At the time I didn’t know. Draco looked so broken down and Codsworth was just staring at me like he knew I wouldn’t go through with it and I got so angry and just agreed. I barely thought about it. Somehow, I barely thought about a lot of things before agreeing to all of this. Can you imagine that? Me.”

“You thought you wanted to save someone’s life and you were willing to do what it took. That’s very like you in my books.” 

“Look where it got me.” Hermione stared at the worn material of the sofa they sat on. 

“You did what you thought was right. And then you just fell for your husband. Nobody faults you for that.”

Hermione laughed. “Plenty of people fault me for it. Part of me faults me for it. There are so many reasons for me to just walk away from it all. Maybe I was just stupid and saw what I wanted to see.”

“Don’t let Theo and that cow of a mother-in-law of yours make you doubt yourself. I know what Malfoy is saying now but he wouldn’t have touched you if he was that same boy from school.”

Hermione dug her nails into her palms. “It wasn’t his choice the first time.” 

“What does that mean?”

“We had to consummate the marriage. It was a requirement for Draco to not be sent back to prison.” Her voice was shaky as she finally spoke about that terrible moment at the Ministry. 

Ginny’s face was pale, her eyes wide and so full of fear. “Are you saying that the Ministry forced you to have sex? Under threat of Azkaban?”

Hermione nodded her head. 

Ginny was standing up before Hermione realised she had even moved, her wand at her side. “Those fucking bastards! They can’t get away with that! We have to tell Harry right now!”

Hermione’s hand shot out, grabbing Ginny by the wrist. “We can’t.”

“Of course we can! That’s not legal! That can’t be legal!”

“The Wizengamot is the body that decides what is legal and what isn’t. The Gallows Marriage was a ridiculous old law that should have been struck down a century ago. They fought fire with fire. Men who make laws rarely consider the people they affect. Especially women.” 

“You can’t be willing to just let this happen! It’s wrong!” 

Hermione coaxed her friend to sit back down. “I’m not willing to take anything. I’m going to prove Draco is innocent. Codsworth is framing him, I just know it. But if we tell Harry before I find out why he’s framing Draco, he won’t be able to do anything. People will think it’s just the musings of a hysterical wife. It needs to be methodical. I need to prove that it’s not Draco, that someone has it out for him.”

Ginny finally looked Hermione in the eyes. “Are you sure about Draco, Hermione? I- I honestly can’t believe he went through with the consummation. That feels so heinous after what you did for him. And from what Harry has mentioned, the evidence is pretty damning. If you think you should walk away, maybe you should listen to that.”

“No.” The word was out of Hermione’s mouth instantly. “You weren’t there. You didn’t see the horror in his face. He refused. I’m the one that told him it was my choice. At any moment l could have changed my mind and Draco would have gone back to Azkaban. That’s honestly what he expected to happen. He never imagined anyone would help him. He never felt worthy of it.”

“Is he worthy of it? Of everything you have sacrificed for him?” Ginny held no malice in her voice. Nothing but concern rested in her eyes. 

Hermione thought back to all the moments where he had snapped at her, had lied to her, the way he had recklessly endangered both their lives, the way he smirked as he told her about his elaborate game. God, she was so angry with him. And she would let him feel every ounce of that anger. 

When he was safe.

“He is.” 

Ginny stared at her for a moment longer before nodding slowly. “I won’t say anything to Harry. It’s not my story to share. But please know, Hermione. I’m here for you. I’m always here for you. I just want you to be okay.”

For the first time in a long time, the words didn’t feel like a weight sinking in her gut. 

“I will be, Ginny. I’m going to figure this out and make the Ministry pay for all of it.”

~~

Hermione Flooed back to the cottage and froze the moment she stepped out of the fireplace.

Narcissa Malfoy sat on her sofa, her body stiff as if the small amount of contact she made with the material would somehow infect her.

Stupid Pureblood probably thought a Muggleborn could give her a rash. 

“Hasn’t anyone ever told you it’s rude to drop by without being invited?” Hermione was in no mood for Narcissa's thinly disguised snark.

“You didn’t seem very worried when you showed up unannounced at the Manor.”

Hermione curled a lip at the memory of the encounter. “Yes, but I don’t give a damn about societal niceties. Image is about all you have left, Mrs. Malfoy.”

Narcissa’s nostrils flared for a moment before she regained her calm demeanour. “I want to apologise. What you overheard at the Manor was unfortunate.”

“Unfortunate? I found out that my friendship and marriage were orchestrated by the same woman who can’t wait to see me out of the picture and you’re still conspiring to make sure I don’t leave your son. That’s slightly more than unfortunate but thanks for the attempt at an apology. If that’s all, you may leave now.”

Narcissa looked momentarily shocked. Hermione revelled in it. 

“Now, Ms. Granger, I hardly think that’s an appropriate way to speak–”

“To whom? Family? My mother-in-law? I doubt you consider yourself either of those things in relation to me. Unless what you really are unnerved by is someone with my blood talking back to someone with your blood.”

Hermione didn’t miss the way Narcissa’s knuckles whitened in her lap.

“You may not understand my views, but I was raised in a certain culture with expectations on who I would associate with, who my children would associate with.” 

Narcissa did not need to add, “and who they would not associate with.” 

“I know that led to where I am, to where Draco is, but that knowledge doesn’t immediately change the ideals that were instilled in me. It doesn’t erase the centuries of beliefs that I was raised with.”

“If you’re trying to get me to sympathise with your prejudice against me, you will be sorely disappointed.”

“That’s not what I’m trying to do. I know you don’t much like me, Ms. Granger, but please don’t use that disdain as a reason to abandon my son.”

Hermione stared at Narcissa, who was wringing the soft material of her robes in her hands. The slip in her facade was surprising. “I don’t like you, you’re right. But not even my dislike for you could sway my actions. You don’t have that kind of power over me. I’m not abandoning Draco. He deserves to be saved. And alongside many other reasons, one of them is because he was raised in a certain culture, with expectations on who he would associate with, backed by centuries of beliefs and somehow came out of it a better person than yourself. I won’t let Draco continue to pay for your failures.”

Narcissa looked stricken, her eyes narrowing as she continued to hold Hermione’s stare. She nodded slowly, before rising. For the first time since Hermione had ever known her, she seemed almost timid in her movement. 

She made her way to the Floo, but paused as she passed Hermione. “I know you don’t believe it, but I love my son. I’ve tried to do everything I could for him.”

Hermione glanced at the woman who had helped shape some of the worst parts of her husband. “If only that love could have been stronger than your hate.” 

Narcissa let out a small sound of pain, so quiet and quick that Hermione wasn’t positive she had heard it all, and then entered the fireplace, disappearing in a roar of green. 

~~

A thought had been nagging at Hermione’s consciousness. That was how she found herself awake at half two. She had tossed and turned for most of the night, Narcissa’s ghost-like presence haunting her subconscious. 

The woman made Hermione so angry. Not even a war or almost losing her son time and time again could shake the bigoted beliefs from her infected mind. Her anger for the witch quickly morphed into anger for the Ministry as a whole. The way she was treated, the way her friends were treated, how the insidious beliefs that had started the war had just dug in deeper after Voldemort.

Hermione seethed at the idea that Narcissa Malfoy wasn’t unique in her beliefs. Plenty of Purebloods felt similarly. They accepted Muggleborns in their world, but only where they felt it was acceptable. Mid-level Ministry workers, business employees, but never owners. The injustice of it burned. The Wizengamot, the body that made their laws, felt the same way, filled to the brim with Purebloods who made the decisions that kept Muggleborns “in their place.”

Hannah, Dennis, Dean, these incidents weren’t isolated situations. They spoke of corrupt laws, woven into the very fabric of their society. 

Hermione found herself in her library, all the correspondence about the Lycanthropy Wing before her. Ethel Alderton had been the leading Wizengamot member overseeing the Wing project. Each disapproval or request for more information had her magical signature on the bottom of the parchment. 

Ethel Alderton. That name felt so familiar to Hermione. She was sure she had heard it somewhere past the paperwork she held in her hands. 

Hermione worried her lip as she tried to remember where she had seen that name before. Quickly standing, she rifled through a stack of newspapers she kept in the corner. Pulling out a sheet from the stack, she looked down at a picture of Harry, Ron and herself smiling and waving as a statue was unveiled behind them. They had been asked to speak at the memorial for those who had fallen during the war and Hermione had wanted to keep the paper as a memory. She flipped through the issue, eyes quickly grazing over the words until she found the name that she had been searching for. 

Ethel Alderton, Sole Inheritor of Flyte & Barker Brooms, Saved from Bankruptcy. 

Hermione suddenly remembered. The news had been all over the papers for weeks. Flyte & Barker had been failing to compete with the likes of Nimbus Racing Broom Company and Thunderbolt, with claims their brooms were more expensive for worse quality. It was speculated that Alderton would need to file for bankruptcy. When all was sure to be lost, it was announced that Flyte & Barker would be hired to fit the English National Quidditch Team, and their company brooms would be used for training. 

The news had caused a stir in the Quidditch world (which Hermione had decidedly ignored) but she recalled  reading an interview by Codsworth that the Ministry was happy to support a “traditional and long standing company like Flyte & Barker.” Speculations were made that Codsworth had pushed for the agreement to save Ethel Alderton, fellow Wizengamot member, from financial ruin, but it was all quickly forgotten by the media. 

Ethel had been exceedingly kind in her correspondence about the Wing, often giving her sympathies for the frustrating situation, even seeming apologetic at times, at the demands of the Wizengamot. Hermione had always felt like Ethel had wanted to give her approval for the hospital addition, but for some reason, always blocked it. She had found it strange, because as lead on the project, Ethel Alderton could have approved the Wing. Unless someone was blocking her from behind the scenes. Someone she owed a debt to. Someone like Codsworth. 

Hermione’s heart began to quicken as she felt the familiar rush of adrenaline that always began to build when she was putting pieces of a puzzle together. 

She had always loved puzzles.

~~

Hermione tapped at her quill on the now filled piece of parchment. 

Andrew Towler Headed the Patenting Office as well as held a seat in the Wizengamot. He had been caught cheating on his wife, a rather nasty divorce ensuing after. His ex-wife had tried to take half of his fortune until the Wizengamot, with Codsworth as Chief Warlock, had created a law stating alimony could only be issued after five years of marriage. Towler had only been married for three. 

Finneas Kettleburn co-owned a firm that oversaw the leasing of Diagon Alley when he was not in session with the Wizengamot. Multiple complaints of poorly maintained flats and unfair price increases had cropped up after the war, all leading back to Kettleburn & Krenkshaw Leasing. Kettleburn had been forced to pay a large sum of Galleons to the plaintiffs but had quickly recouped his losses after the Wizengamot passed a law that rent prices could legally be increased by 7% annually every two years at the discretion of the leasing companies. 

Ethel Alderton, Andrew Towler, and Finneas Kettleburn all sat for the Wizengamot and had somehow gained from a ruling by the Wizengamot, all while August Codsworth had been Chief Warlock. The three had a history of voting alongside whatever decision Codsworth made, including blocking Muggleborns and voting against hearing Ben Copper’s petition to change Blaise’s inheritance stipulations. 

Hermione had Owled Goldestein as soon as the sun had risen, asking for Wizengamot rulings and records for the past ten years, stating she thought it would help the Lycanthropy Wing. Hermione knew it would be too suspicious if she inquired herself and she prayed that Anthony didn’t decide to ask too many questions. 

A few hours later, she was going through years of Wizengamot paperwork. The picture being painted made Hermione’s stomach twist with anger. 

Rulings that could somehow advance or support Muggleborns were routinely voted against. 

One stuck out to Hermione. Ten years ago, before Codsworth had been made Chief Warlock, he had authored the Magical Heritage Act. It was a vile piece of law that essentially limited the careers Muggleborns could hold. All done in the name of “keeping Magical heritage at the forefront of the Magical World.” 

While the vote had been too close for Hermione’s comfort, the Act had ultimately been struck down in the Wizengamot. Codsworth kept his head down from that point on until he made a bid for Chief Warlock. In his role of authority, Hermione was almost certain he was abusing the system to turn his vetoed Act into an unspoken reality. 

What she couldn’t figure out was his obsession with Draco. She figured her blood status had something to do with it, but to frame him just because he was married to a Muggleborn seemed overzealous, even for a despicable little man. 

That was until she read the records from June. The month she had married Draco. 

Mere days after she had stuttered out her wedding vows, the Wizengamot had met to look at potentially overturning an old law. The law allowed members of the Wizengamot who had inherited seats to yield the position to their spouse. To Hermione’s surprise, only ten seats could be inherited out of the fifty that made up the Wizengamot. They belonged to the very oldest of families in Britain. Even more ancient than that Sacred Twenty-Eight.

Families like the Malfoys.

Wizengamot records showed that Codsworth had spoken, voicing concern over who the spouses of seat-holders could be, and the lack of ability to properly vet potential Wizengamot members. In the end, the law remained intact, those against its abolishment stating that they also were not able to control who inherited these seats. It had been an accepted aspect of Wizengamot and Magical history. Hermione's fingers shook as she reread the record. 

This was it. 

The disgust in his eyes when Codsworth had looked at Hermione, the glee he had held when she had refused to consummate the marriage, the absolute anger when she had gone through with it. She was his worst nightmare. A Muggleborn woman with an Order of Merlin First Class behind her, who sought change in the Wizarding world, with Malfoy money and prestige to back it up. 

By framing Draco for murder and causing their divorce, Hermione wouldn't be eligible for a Wizengamot chair. Additionally, the prestige of putting away the last Death Eater could keep Codsworth as Chief Warlock for another ten years. It was two birds with one stone. 

She could work with that.

~~

Hermione carefully weaved through the Ministry; the Invisibility Cloak wrapped tightly around her. She had Owled Ginny, asking her to meet at Harry’s office. 

Slipping through DMLE, she reached the door of Harry’s office, hearing Ginny’s voice within. Sending a small Descendo to a stack of files in the opposite direction, causing the pile to tumble down, Hermione used the distraction to quickly push the door open. 

“Merlin’s tits!”

Hermione rolled her eyes, and she yanked the cloak off. “Your security measures are abysmal, Harry.”

“People generally don’t try to break into the DMLE. Being surrounded by Aurors with wands seems to take the fun out of it.”

“Those Aurors with wands would need to catch the person first. Hello, Ginny. Thank you for meeting me.” Ginny gave her a quick smile. 

“You’ve got me there. What brought you to break into my department today?”

“We need to talk.” Hermione quickly sat down in the chair next to Ginny while Harry sat behind his desk. 

“And it couldn’t have waited until tonight? Things are still busy right now.” 

“No. It can’t wait. Codsworth is framing Draco. I need your help to figure out how he framed him.”

Harry blinked at her, eyes wide. “That’s a very serious allegation. Can you please tell me what has brought you to this conclusion?” His tone was careful, his Auror training kicking in. 

“I believe that Codsworth has been pulling favours for other Wizengamot members in return for their votes, as well as using his position to oppress Muggleborns. Additionally, I believe he purposefully framed Draco to prevent me from potentially having access to his inherited Wizengamot seat. Codsworth is terrified of Muggleborns holding any positions of power.” 

“What brings you to this conclusion?” 

“I have a list of Muggleborns who were denied leases, refused patents, had their projects derailed, or were denied a meeting with the Wizengamot. All the people who made these decisions have connections to Codsworth. There’s also this.” Hermione pulled out of the scrolls that held the Wizengamot records. “I’ve circled all the rulings that directly benefited Wizengamot members. Codsworth was a lead on each of those rulings. Also look at the ruling for May 13th, 1993, as well as the ruling from this past June.”

Hermione watched as Harry read about the Magical Heritage Act and the meeting to overturn the spousal privilege for inherited Wizengamot seats. She watched as his jaw shifted and clicked before he set the scroll down. 

“These are very concerning findings, but before we dig any further and potentially make an enemy of a very powerful man, please let me warn you that this might not be enough to save Malfoy. I just need you to know that there is a chance he did it, however small that chance might be. Are you willing to make Codsworth your enemy even if Malfoy somehow is guilty? I can investigate this separately without linking it to him. Or to you for that matter.”

“I’m a part of this, Harry. Codsworth is terrified that I, a Muggleborn, could gain any amount of power. He’s done so many heinous and cruel things to make sure it doesn’t happen. I can’t let him get away with it.”

“Are there things he’s done that you haven’t told me about?”

Hermione glanced at Ginny, who gave her a comforting nod of her head. “Codsworth made Draco and I consummate our marriage on threat of sending Draco back to Azkaban. Draco tried to refuse, but I told him I wouldn’t let him go back to a cell. It happened here in the Ministry, in a storage room with a transfigured bed.” 

She held Harry’s stare, refusing to be ashamed of what she had endured, daring anyone to think less of her. 

His face slackened, his dark brows rising high on his forehead. 

“Oh, god, Hermione.” His voice sounded young, reminding Hermione of the young boy she had befriended in school. 

“We don’t need to discuss it further. Codsworth is dangerous and is wielding power that he is abusing. He did something like that without batting an eye. He is capable of framing Draco. It’s him, Harry. I know it.”

Harry stood and walked around his desk until he was in front of Hermione. Pulling her up gently by her hand, he drew her into a tight embrace. “I’m so sorry, Hermione. I’m so sorry I wasn’t there, like I should have been. I’m here now, though. I believe you. If you’re sure, I believe you.” 

She felt her throat squeeze with emotion as she reciprocated the hug. After a moment he stepped back, quickly dashing his hand across his eyes. “Right. What are our next steps?”

Hermione squared her shoulders. “Before anything else, I need to speak with my husband.”

~~

The plan was simple. Harry would arrange a meeting with Draco under the guise of needing to ask him case-related questions. Hermione would then follow wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Draco could refuse to see her in his misguided attempt to protect her, but Hermione was done being told where she was allowed in the world.

Once more Hermione was hidden by the magic of the Invisibility Cloak. Her heart began to beat faster and faster as they approached the Auror that had denied her entrance. 

“Hey, Gafford. I’m here to speak with Malfoy.”

“Hello, Potter. I got your meeting request. The prisoner is in the interrogation room. Go on in.”

The familiar door opened and they walked through, Hermione tucked close to Harry’s side. They walked down the familiar hall before stopping at the same door Hermione had last seen Draco. 

Harry pushed the door opened, Hermione rushing in as soon as her body could fit through the opening. She pulled the cloak off, Harry quickly shutting them safely into the room. 

An empty room.

“Where is he?” Hermione frantically turned to Harry. 

He looked just as perplexed as she did. “I have no idea. I made the request. He should be here. Gafford even said he was ready. There must be a mix-up. Wait here, I’m going to go talk to him.” 

Hermione remained standing. The hairs on her arm were raised, a chill going up her spine. Something was wrong. 

The door suddenly pushed open again, causing Hermione to whip her wand out. Harry came in, his green eyes full of concern. 

“Gafford has been Confunded. He just kept saying Malfoy was waiting in the interrogation room. His wand is missing too.”

“Oh, god, Draco.”

Harry's face looked grim. “This… this is looking bad, Hermione. A Confunded Auror, a missing wand, Malfoy very obviously not where he should be. Prisoners being kept at the Ministry are typically brought to the interrogation room within thirty minutes of making a request by an Auror. Malfoy should be here. Gafford wouldn’t be the one to bring him though. It would be whoever was on guard duty.”

“Draco wouldn’t run away. Even if he didn’t give a damn about me, he wouldn’t risk getting the Kiss reinstated.”

“I know. He’d never be able to return to Britain, never be able to see his mother. But if he didn’t run, there’s only one other option.”

An icy feeling flooded Hermione’s chest.

“Someone took him.”

Notes:

So the plot thickens! Things are happening, ya'll!! Where did Draco go??

Thank you for all the amazing comments and love! i feel so fortunate to be in such an amazing fandom!

A small PSA, I am hoping to post twice this upcoming week but it might be later than Wednesday. I have some fun summer family stuff coming up! Fingers crossed that I can fit it all in.

Shoutout to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter! I love you both.

This was written while it stormed. Very moody and perfect for some mystery. I got a new phone so more busted screens for me.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 28

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione felt nausea rolling through her as they made their way to the holding cells of the Ministry. No alarm bells had sounded regarding Draco’s disappearance. Not yet at least. Harry wanted it to stay that way. If Codsworth was behind it, there was a fair chance someone in the Ministry was helping. 

As soon they entered the dimly lit stone hallway, Hermione could tell something was wrong. 

“Harry, where are the Aurors?” Hermione whispered, still under the cover of the Invisibility Cloak. 

“They should be here,” he replied. She could hear the tension in his voice. 

The hallway was empty. 

Hermione crept forward, staying close to Harry’s side, her wand in hand. 

“Oh, shit, Bones!” 

As they turned the corner to the last block of cells, the crumpled body of Susan Bones laid on the floor, half slumped against the bars of an empty cell. Harry ran to her, quickly checking for a pulse as Hermione looked for whoever could have hurt the woman. 

“She’s breathing. I think it was a Stunner.” He began moving his wand before pausing. “Hermione, stay under the cloak while I question her. I don’t want anyone to know you’re a part of this just yet. Rennervate.” 

Susan gasped before she started coughing. Her eyes were wide, a snapshot of the fear and adrenaline that she had experienced before being Stunned. Strands of red hair were slipping from the braid that rested against her back. Her hands gripped Harry’s arm tightly. 

“Oh, Merlin, what happened?” 

“I found you Stunned on the floor. Are you hurt?”

She reached her hand to the back of her head, wincing as her fingers made contact. “I have a terrible headache and a lump the size of a dragon’s egg, but fine otherwise.” 

“You need to tell me what happened.” 

She opened her eyes, nodding to Harry. “Right. I came to chat to Dawson about a pickup Quidditch game that we had scheduled for Saturday. We were chatting when two men came down the hall. They said Malfoy had been requested for questioning. When Dawson mentioned he had never seen them before, they started hexing. I got hit with a Stunner and I don’t remember anything after that. How’s Dawson?”

“I haven’t found him.” 

Susan’s face blanched. “You don’t think…”

Harry eyed the hall behind her. “Give me a moment.” Leading with his wand, he slowly canvassed the rest of the jail cells. 

Hermione gripped her wand tightly from underneath the cloak, her rapid breath creating moisture in the space beneath the material. She watched as Susan pressed a hand to her chest, still sitting on the floor. 

Harry’s footsteps echoed against the stones as he returned, face pale. “Dawson… he isn’t there. There was some splattered blood though.”

Hermione’s breath caught in her throat as Susan let out a small cry. “I can’t believe… I was just talking to him.” 

“We aren’t sure what’s happened to him yet. Susan, can you remember anything about the men, anything at all?” 

The woman cleared her throat, a few errant tears trailing down her face and off her chin. “It was a short man and a tall fellow. The short one had a scar on his chin. They were wearing dingy robes, honestly looked a bit rough. I definitely hadn’t seen them at the Ministry before.” 

“Would you remember them if you saw them again?”

“Of course.” 

Harry nodded. “That’s great, Bones. Alright. Is there anything else, anything at all that you can remember before being Stunned?”

“Well, just one thing. Malfoy. We were standing near his cell. I felt someone tug my robes back. Pulled me out of the way of the first Stunner. He… he told me to duck. I was hit with the second Stunner after that. I think he tried to protect me.” Susan’s voice shook as she spoke, her eyes wide, like she had just seen a ghost walk through the wall next to them.

Hermione’s eyes burned at the thought of Draco locked up without a wand, trying to pull Susan away from being Stunned. 

Harry’s eyes flicked to where Hermione stood hidden for just a second. “Thank you, Bones. You did great. Let’s get you up and to the infirmary.”

“I’m fine, just shaken up. What about Dawson?” she wobbled. 

“I’m going to find him.” 

Susan wiped a tear before Harry helped her stand up. He walked her out of the block of cells, parting from her in the hallway, making sure she knew she was to go home and rest and not return to work. She promised to reach out if she remembered anything else. Hermione followed Harry to his office, waiting until the door clicked shut to pull the Invisibility Cloak off. 

“They took him, Harry. Those men took him. They Stunned Susan and did God knows what to Dawson and Draco is gone.” Hermione could feel the rise of hysteria building inside her chest and took a breath to steady herself. She knew if she faltered for even a moment, it would consume her. 

“Who did? What’s happening?” Ginny stood, head swivelling between her husband and Hermione. 

“We found Bones Stunned next to Malfoy’s cell. She said two men showed up saying Malfoy was being requested for questioning and when they asked who they were, they started slinging hexes. Dawson is missing. I found some blood in a cell.”

“Are you sure it was Dawson’s and not Malfoy’s?”

“It wasn’t in Draco’s cell. It wouldn’t make sense to take him to another cell to… hurt him.” He was already locked up without a wand. If they wanted to kill him, they would have done it then and there. It's far more likely Dawson got in the way and got hurt.”

Harry nodded in agreement. “I put a stasis charm on the blood. I wanted to keep this all as quiet as possible but now that Dawson is missing and Bones was attacked, I’m not sure how long that’ll last.”

“My Vow, Harry.” Hermione rubbed the faint mark on her wrist. “I Vowed to take Draco’s place if he tried to evade the law.”

“But he didn’t. He gave himself up and then was kidnapped.” Ginny pointed out.

“To the discretion of the law. Codsworth was careful with that bit.” 

Ginny swore loudly. “So, unless we can prove that Malfoy was kidnapped, Codsworth can say this is just him evading the law and you’ll get his prison sentence? That’s mental!”

“He’d have to find out about it first.”

Hermione turned to Harry quizzically. 

“I won’t be able to keep Malfoy’s disappearance hidden for long, but I can buy us a little bit of time. At least to get a head start on this before Codsworth swoops in.”

“What about Dawson?” Hermione asked. 

“The faster we find Malfoy, the faster we find Dawson.”

“Harry, you could get in a lot of trouble for this.”

He gave her a winsome smile. “Let’s hope the whole war hero thing still works.” 

Hermione glanced at Ginny who scoffed. “I’m ready to tear this building down brick by brick. I have no qualms doing what it takes to put Codsworth in his place.”

Hermione felt herself choke up for a moment before she swallowed down the growing lump in her throat. “Right. Well, we have to be fast. We just have to… go against the Ministry and find Draco… and we have no leads.” As she spoke, she could feel the despair in her gut beginning to grow. “Oh, God, we have almost nothing.”

“We won a war as children, Hermione. We can figure this out.”

“Yes, but we had leads back then, as small as they might have been. I know Draco’s disappearance is related to Codsworth but I’m not sure how. Even if we manage to find him, Codsworth can just say that he ran away and throw him to the Dementors. That’s if we can find him. Even if we use Appare Vestigium to trace what happened in the holding cells, without a wand, Draco won’t show up other than whatever spell was used on him. My guess is he was Stunned. That doesn't help us find him.” 

“Hermione, breathe, just breathe. I think I know someone who can help.”

She snapped her head up to Harry. “You do? Who? Can we trust them?”

“I do think we can trust him. But you may not like it very much.”

“Oh, Harry, you can’t mean it.”

He winced. “Still have that business card I gave you?”

~~

They all sat uncomfortably in Harry’s office. While not ideal, Hermione had agreed it was best they stayed in his office to work. Harry had a private Floo entrance and needed to stay close to the Ministry in case Draco’s disappearance had been revealed. He had made sure that Gafford was sent home early by giving him a Puking Pastille, which the still Confunded man had eaten happily. 

Now she sat in a chair waiting for the Floo to burn to life. When it finally did, she looked up to see Theo stepping into Harry’s office. 

“Hermione, I came as soon as I could. Have you heard anything about Draco? That Bones woman doesn’t remember anything else?” Theo’s voice was frantic,and he kept looking around the room wildly, like he would find his brother hidden behind a painting or a bookcase. It was heartbreaking enough to take the edge off Hermione’s anger. If anyone was as desperate to find Draco as she was, it was Theo. 

Apparently, Ginny did not share the same sentiments. 

“You absolute wanker. If you try to pull anything like what you did again, I’ll hex you to next Tuesday.” She emphasised her words by rolling her wand threateningly between her fingers. 

“Don’t be ridiculous, Ginny.” Hermione tsked, rising from her chair. Theo, who had been looking quite nervous, seemed to exhale momentarily. “If he ever does something like that again there won’t be enough of him to hex.” 

Theo flinched, looking up to Harry who just nodded solemnly. “Hermione, I know you probably don’t believe me but I’m so sorry.”

“It’s not the time, Nott. The Ministry could demand my incarceration at any moment, so let’s discuss this when Draco is safe.”

He stared at her for a moment longer before nodding. “Right, of course. Potter filled me in on what happened with Bones. You think it’s Codsworth?”

“I do. I don’t have any clear evidence that would link him to Draco, but I’m sure it’s him.”

“Codsworth has never been a particular fan of the Malfoys. Lucius knew too many of his secrets. After the war, a lot of proponents of blood purity wanted to distance themselves from relationships with Death Eaters. Codsworth was particularly harsh with his rulings, not that many of them didn’t deserve it. I should have suspected something when Draco mentioned he had met with Codsworth and got this special deal that would keep him from the Kiss. He was particularly despondent during that visit, and I chalked it up to him being a self-loathing, sacrificial arse.”

“Yes, he mentioned that meeting to me as well. I’m not sure what was said there, but I’m guessing that the lucky offer he made came with threats to what would happen to me if he didn’t accept.”

“I even saw that despicable little man leaving the interrogation room before I went in. Ugly bloke, a face only a mother could love, really. The woman he was with even seemed to hate him.”

“What woman?” 

Theo seemed to be pulled from his memory and looked at Hermione. “She looked familiar, but I couldn’t put my finger on it. She was rather young, but maybe another Wizengamot member?”

“Did she have glasses and dark brown hair?” Hermione questioned, thinking of Ms. Beale the Secretary. 

“No, she had red hair. It was braided.”

Ginny gasped as Hermione stepped toward Harry. “Did she go home?”

“I’m not sure. I told her to, but I didn’t walk her to the Floo as you know.”

“What am I missing?” Theo’s head was whipping between the three of them. 

“Susan Bones was Stunned. Dawson is missing with nothing but blood left in his place, and she was only Stunned? Why?” Hermione felt that familiar tingling of adrenaline as puzzle pieces fell into place. 

“Susan Bones?” Theo said the name like he tasted something funny. He ruminated on it for a moment longer before his mouth slackened. “Susan fucking Bones.”

“Why would she have been with Codsworth? Did he request an Auror to go visit Malfoy?” Ginny asked. 

“We have Aurors specifically for that. They wouldn’t have asked her to accompany Codsworth while we were in the middle of such an active investigation. Not to mention that as her partner and lead on the case, she would have told me if she was visiting Malfoy.” 

“Unless she didn’t want you to know.” Hermione’s mind was racing now, going over every moment she had seen the woman, looking for any clues. “You saw how confused and almost scared she was when she mentioned Draco trying to pull her from the Stunner. We need to talk to her, Harry.” 

“I’ll Floo over now. I’m sure if I talk to her, she’ll tell me—”

“No. I need to be there.” 

Harry chewed his bottom lip for a moment before conceding. 

~~

“Oh, hello, Harry. I didn’t expect to see you so soon.” Susan’s voice floated from the sitting room of the small townhome they arrived in. Hermione felt her throat tighten from the Floo ash that rose up beneath the Invisibility Cloak and she suppressed a cough. 

“Sorry for just dropping in, Bones. I just wanted to ask you a few more questions.”

“Yeah, of course. Though I’m not sure how much more that is to share.”

“If you could just go over what happened in the attack one more time, that would be great. I just want to make sure I didn’t miss any details.”

“Right. Uh, like I told you, I went down to talk to Dawson about Quidditch. Two men that we didn’t recognise came down saying that Malfoy was needed for further questions. When Dawson questioned who they were, they started sending out Stunners.”

“And that’s when Malfoy attempted to pull you out of harm's way?”

Susan looked around the room quickly. “Ah, yes. And then I was hit with the next Stunner.”

“Was it surprising to you that Malfoy tried to save you?”

Susan’s head turned back to Harry. “What?”

“You seemed rather spooked when you mentioned it earlier.”

“Oh, well, yeah. I guess I was a bit taken aback by it. I didn’t expect it from him. It’s not what he would have done back in school.”

“Five years have passed since school. That’s a lot of time for people to change.”

“He couldn’t have changed that much if he’s been murdering Muggles.”

“I guess that’s true. It’s strange though, that Codsworth offered him a plea deal if he’s a murderer. Maybe he knows something we don’t.” 

Susan stood abruptly from the sofa she had been sitting on and began pacing the room. “I don’t know why he offered Malfoy that deal.”

“I’m not sure that’s entirely true.”

She looked up at him quickly, halting her movement. “What does that mean?”

“Someone says they saw you leaving the interrogation room with Codsworth. So, you tell me what it all means.”

Hermione gripped her wand tightly from beneath the Cloak, waiting for the woman’s reaction. 

Susan looked like a deer caught in headlights. “I– I–”

“Please, Bones.” Harry’s voice was quiet but strong. 

She bit her lip before walking back to the sofa and sinking into the cushions. Hermione noticed her hands shaking as she spoke. “I don’t know who took him. That’s the truth. That wasn’t– I didn’t know that was going to happen.”

“I believe you, but please, if you know something else, you need to tell me.”

Hermione’s breath quickened as she watched the witch wring her hands. 

“He wasn’t supposed to get out of Azkaban. He was supposed to get the Kiss because he was guilty of his crimes and that was supposed to be the end.”

“But he did get out.” Harry pushed as Susan paused.

“He got out. It wasn’t right. People died because of his family and their support of You-Know-Who. And he was just going to be free. That wasn’t right. I- I was so angry that he was free to go about his life. Half of my family has been wiped out by Death Eaters and here was one playing house with a Muggleborn who was kind enough to save him.

“I had heard around the DMLE that Codsworth was livid that Malfoy had been released. My Aunt Amelia hadn’t been a fan, but she was dead, killed by a Death Eater. I figured an enemy of my enemy could be my friend. Codsworth agreed that Malfoy being released was dangerous but wasn’t sure what to do about it. I… I suggested that maybe if someone followed him, just in case he did anything, it could be the safest precaution for everyone. I volunteered but Codsworth said he couldn’t ask me to put myself in that kind of danger. He said he would handle it.

“Then a few days later he comes to my office and informs me that Malfoy had murdered a Muggle. I was horrified. I wanted to arrest him on the spot but since he hasn’t used magic and that having him followed wasn’t exactly legal, that we couldn’t say we knew. He… he suggested that I bring the case up to Robards.”

“That’s why Robards was interested in a Muggle murder that didn’t involve magic.” Harry breathed. 

Susan nodded her head, not looking him in the eye. “I told him that I had a hunch about the case. That it was potentially linked to a previous case that I had worked on a few years ago. I asked him to let us investigate it but not tell anyone it was my idea. I told him I was embarrassed in case there wasn’t a connection.”

“And he trusted you because why wouldn’t he? You’ve been an Auror in the department for a long time.” Harry’s voice was cold, causing Susan to flinch. 

“Yes.” she whispered.

“What else?”

She took a small breath in. “Codsworth came to me one night and asked me if I thought the world was a more dangerous place with Malfoy free in it. We had recently investigated the Muggle murder where people had identified someone that matched Malfoy’s description. I told him yes, of course the world was a more dangerous place with him in it.”

Hermione took a step forward before she could stop herself, the rage building. She caught herself quickly and froze, thankfully for the Silencing Charm on her shoes. She needed to know the rest. 

“He gave me a wand. It was a Malfoy heirloom wand. The Ministry still had control over his Vaults. He… he told me to hide it at Malfoy Manor. Apparently, a routine search was already on the book. The DMLE has a list of secret compartments hidden in the Manor from the post-war raids. I refused at first, but he told me to think of my family, whose lives had ended too soon. He asked me if I could live with myself if someone else died when I could have stopped it. So… I did it. I took the wand and hid it at the Manor.

“Shortly after that, we got the news about Avada, and I was sick with myself. I thought I had given Malfoy access to a wand and that’s why he had killed the Muggle. And then he turned himself in to the DMLE. I was shocked. It didn’t make sense for him to turn himself in like that. I went to go talk to him, to see why he did it, but Codsworth caught me in the hall. He used my allotted interview time to talk to him instead. Said he wouldn’t look good for his name to be on the official books. I thought we were there to tell him that we knew he was guilty and would make sure that he got the Kiss.”

“But that’s not what happened.” Harry offered. 

“No. Codsworth just… laughed when we got in the room and saw Malfoy shackled. Said he knew he’d end up back in chains. Malfoy said something snarky about there couldn’t be a fate worse than ‘being chained to a table and being forced to listen to Codscock blather on.’ That made Codsworth livid. He spat on Malfoy’s face. I was shocked and told him that it was uncalled for. He just looked at me and he looked… off. His eyes were half mad. For a moment I thought he was going to hex me, but Malfoy laughed in return. 

“Codsworth glared at him before smiling himself. He told Malfoy that he had him cornered and wouldn’t let him go this time. Then he brought up a Vow that Malfoy had made. Codsworth said he would make sure it was used against ‘her’.”

Hermione’s stomach rolled hard. Her hands shook with unbridled anger. Susan continued her confession. 

“That got Malfoy’s attention. He yelled at Codsworth that he had turned himself in, he wasn’t evading the law. Codsworth just laughed again. He said it didn’t matter. That if Hermione tried to interfere with the investigation or released him, Codsworth would figure out a way to implicate her and make her take Malfoy’s place. Malfoy started thrashing against the chains so hard I thought he would dislocate his shoulder. Codsworth got his attention again and told him that if he kept her away, she would be safe. He said he would even reward Malfoy by giving him life in Azkaban instead of the Kiss. Malfoy said he would rather die than rot in a prison and… Codsworth just tutted and asked how his wife would feel about watching his soul ripped from his body. I’ve… I’ve never seen a person break like that. He just absolutely crumbled at those words. Draco Malfoy was there, crying over Hermione Granger.”

“And you just watched!” Hermione ripped the Invisibility Cloak off, her wand aimed at the snivelling woman. “You framed him for murder and then watched as the man who held the axe over his neck goaded him! You watched Codsworth break a man by threatening his wife and did nothing!”

Susan, who had screamed when Hermione had suddenly appeared out of thin air, was now scrambling to reach for her wand that sat on a side table. With a flick of her wrist, Hermione sent the wand flying into her own outstretched hand. 

“Hermione…” Harry warned softly. 

“I’m not going to hurt her. Unlike Susan here, I don’t play games with other people’s lives.” Hermione spat.

“I thought he was guilty! At that point I still thought that he had killed the two Muggles!” Susan cried out; hands held up in surrender.

“He didn’t kill anyone.” Hermione gritted out. 

Susan nodded her head, almost violently. “I know! I figured that out eventually. After we left, I felt uncomfortable with the entire situation. I didn’t trust Codsworth anymore, but I didn’t have any proof against him other than what I had seen but… I approached him. I was the one that suggested someone follow Malfoy. 

“Yes, Codsworth gave me the wand but I’m the one that planted the evidence. I couldn’t tell anyone because Codsworth could have said it was entirely my idea. I went to his office to talk to him about it all, but I saw him talking to a man. A man that looked familiar. I only saw him for a moment before his secretary hurried me out of the office. It took me a bit to remember who that man was, but then I remembered. My Aunt Amelia had had a list of suspected Death Eaters. She had told me that most people focused on the more notorious Death Eaters, like the Malfoy’s or the Lestranges, but that the Snatchers and other low-level lackeys were just as dangerous. The man I saw with Codsworth was Colin Higgs. He was a Snatcher during the war. His sentencing was very lenient - six months in Azkaban.” 

“Why is a member of the Wizengamot having secret meetings with a Snatcher?” Harry pondered out loud. 

Susan shrugged her shoulders. “That’s what I was wondering. I know I said that I went to the jail cells to talk to Dawson, but I was also hoping to talk to Malfoy and try to figure out what he might know. Then I was attacked. When Malfoy tried to save me, I realised he wasn’t the dangerous killer I had imagined.” 

“Why didn’t you tell Harry everything when he found you in the hallway?” Hermione asked, her wand lowering only slightly. 

Shame filled Susan’s eyes. “I… was scared. Scared to admit my own part in everything, but also… I watched Codsworth destroy Malfoy’s entire life. He’s a scary enemy to have.”

“Oh, Susan. I promise I am much worse.” Hermione intoned. She held the witch’s nervous gaze before lowering her wand completely. “Do you by any chance have a copy of those records of your aunts?”

Susan nodded frantically. “Yes, of course!” She quickly scurried to another room before coming back, holding a stack of parchment. “Each sheet has information on the members of the Snatchers’ organisation.” 

“I want you to look through them carefully and tell me if any of them look like the men who took Draco. Right now. Time is of the essence.” Hermione ordered. 

Susan looked shocked. “Of course! I can’t believe I didn’t think of that.” She quickly began rifling through the papers as Harry sent a Patronus to Ginny that they would be back shortly. 

Finally, Susan pulled out two sheets. “It’s them! These are the men that attacked me!”

Hermione took the parchment from her. “Tiburn Trowley and Duncan Hornwood. Both were Snatchers for Voldemort. You’re sure?”

“It’s them. I know it.”

“Alright. Now we need to find Draco.”

“Nott said he had a plan.” 

Hermione frowned at Harry before turning back to Susan. “I’m choosing to trust you right now. Please do not tell anyone that Draco is missing or what we are doing. I promise it’ll go badly for you if you do.”

Susan bobbed her head frantically once more. “Of course. I promise I won’t tell anyone. I also want Dawson to be found and I trust you both to do that.”

Hermione gathered the Invisibility Cloak from the floor before stepping into the Floo with Harry. “We’ll let you know if we find him.”

Susan gave a small wave before they Flooed away. 

~~

They arrived back at Harry’s office to shouts.

“You tell me where they are, Ginny! Right now!”

“It’s none of your business, Ron!”

“Oh really? They are my best friends and you’re my sister!”

“Hey, hey! What’s going on?” Harry yelled with his arms stretched out between his wife and her brother. 

“Finally, you’re back! I came to talk to you and found Ginny and this bloke in here.” Ron gestured to Theo who just shrugged. “Then your Patronus pops in and shares that you and Hermione will be back soon with news. When I asked Ginny what news, she clammed up and wouldn’t tell me.”

“Because it’s none of your business. You can’t just demand information from me!” Ginny's cheeks were flushed from her anger.

“Harry, I know something is going on. I went to the jail cells and it’s empty. You were the last person on the docket to have a meeting with Malfoy. Which I erased from the docket just so you know, because I knew you were up to something. And if it involves Malfoy, I knew you would be involved too.” He now focused his attention on Hermione. “So, please. Tell me what’s happening.”

Harry glanced at Hermione before nodding. She took a deep breath before turning back to Ron. “Fine. Draco is currently missing. Two men, who used to be Snatchers, attacked Susan and Dawson and then took Draco. We believe Codsworth is involved. Susan admitted to working with him to frame Draco for murder. She remembers seeing Codsworth speaking with another ex-Snatcher in his office. I believe he framed Draco so that I could never assume his inherited Wizengamot seat. Codsworth has a long history of keeping Muggleborns out of any roles of power in the wizarding world. He also told Draco he intended to send me to Azkaban if I interfered at all. In fact, with Draco now missing, I believe Codsworth will try to have me take his prison sentence using an Unbreakable Vow he made me take. So effectively, I am looking at a lifetime in Azkaban.” 

“Fucking Merlin’s Beard. That’s why he asked me to show you.” 

“Show me what?”

Ron ran a hand through his red hair before resting it against the back of his head, tugging at the roots before letting his arm drop. “Malfoy requested to speak with me. I almost told him where I thought he could shove that request but decided it might be fun seeing him chained up. It ended up being a very short meeting. He told me to show you Edward Wright’s memory. Specifically, Memory Five. When I asked why I should, he told me that there was no point in you trying to save him from the fate he was always meant to have. He… he said he wanted to protect you from carrying the weight of the world.”

“And you just listened to him? You showed me that awful memory so I would abandon him?” Hermione’s voice was filled with venom.

Ron began to open his mouth, but closed it, before lowering his head. “Yes.”

“You absolute knobhead!” Ginny yelled, starting to head for her brother but was intercepted by Harry. 

“I’m sorry, Hermione. I really thought he was guilty. All the evidence like the wand and the murders. I thought maybe he was remorseful about you but still guilty. I thought I was protecting you.”

“That wasn’t protection, you were just lying to me.” 

“You’re right. You’ve told me this entire time that Malfoy cares for you and is different. And him asking me to show you that memory was an example of that change, but I didn’t want to see it. I know I’ve been a shit friend, but I can’t sit by and watch you go to Azkaban. And I can’t sit by and watch Codsworth just move everyone like a chess piece in some twisted game. I want to help you. And help Malfoy.”

Hermione had a sudden urge to punch Ron in his freckled face but agreed instead. Now was not the time. Draco was still missing.

“Theo, any luck with your plan?” 

“Yes, actually. Though, as a disclaimer, it’s not entirely legal.”

“Theo, I’m basically a fugitive right now. As long as it works, I don’t care.”

Theo eyed Harry and Ron and Hermione stepped in front of them. “They won’t say anything. Keep going.”

He eyed the Aurors once more before pulling out a grotesque object that resembled a candlestick. It had an iron base and affixed to the top was a crystal orb. Inside the orb was an eye that spun rapidly, taking in the room and all its inhabitants. 

“Wait a minute, I remember that from Borgin & Burkes. Last I heard, their dark artefacts had been taken in by DMLE!” Harry exclaimed.

Theo smiled sheepishly. “Yes, well most of them have been. But we could say, a few may have found themselves at what one would call an underground auction.”

“We aren’t performing your raids properly, Nott.” Ron said while staring at the eyeball spinning rapidly around. 

“Oh, no. They’re perfectly adequate, Weasley. If they were any better, we wouldn’t be able to use this to track Draco.”

“How does this… thing help us?” Ginny asked, frowning as the eyeball spun towards her. 

“That’s a Scrying Eye.” Hermione said with distaste. “It’s made when a powerful witch or wizard is killed. Their eyes are taken to imbue crystal orbs with heightened magic. It allowed a user to find things. People, objects, anything really.”

“Very handy for a collector. And I promise I didn’t harm anyone for it. I bought it like that.” Theo offered when everyone looked at him with horror. 

“How will it find Malfoy?” Harry questioned. 

“We simply need something for the eye to search for. Hair, blood, even spit can work.”

“Well, that’s handy, let me just pull out the vial of Malfoy’s blood I keep in my robe. Oh wait, I don’t have one because that’s not fucking normal.” Ron scoffed. 

“It might not be normal but that’s also taken care of.” Theo pulled out what looked like a crumpled and dirty cloth. “I nicked this from Draco. I figured he wouldn’t miss it and thought it was better to have it if something ever happened to him.” 

Hermione realised the cloth was a piece of Draco’s old prison uniform. The front of it, which had been bloodied from his split lip, was now neatly cut into a square, the blood in the centre. She realised what meticulous planning Theo had been doing all along. 

“I needed a little bit of extra time to extract the blood and create an essence. We pour the liquid on the crystal ball, and it’ll absorb the essence. We’ll grab the iron handle and it essentially Apparates us to wherever Draco is.”

“Genius.” Ginny breathed. “Disgusting, but genius.”

“None of you need to go.” Hermione suddenly spoke, facing everyone in the room. “It’s going to be dangerous, which I’ve accepted. We don’t know where we’ll end up or what we’ll find. You can all stay behind, and I’ll completely understand. I won’t hold it against any of you.”

Ginny rolled her eyes before turning to Harry. “Can you believe this one? Thinking we’ll all just twiddle our thumbs while she gets the glory?”

“Seriously, Hermione. Some advice to you. As a seasoned self-sacrificer, your speeches will be ignored. You should get used to it.” Harry stepped closer to her and gave her hand a squeeze. 

“You know I’m in already.” Ron sighed before stepping closer to the Eye with a grimace. 

“And I owe Draco a good hexing so I’m going as well.” Theo quipped. 

“You’ll have to get in line behind me.” Hermione shot back. 

“Is she always this bloodthirsty?” Theo asked Ginny.

“Oh, no. She’s pretty restrained right now. Trying to keep herself focused is my bet.”

“Is everyone ready?” Hermione continued, ignoring the side chatter. 

Everyone nodded in agreement. 

“Alright. If you’re injured or in a dangerous situation and alone, Apparate out immediately. If you get a hold of Draco or Dawson, Apparate out immediately. The rest of us will follow. Now hold on.” 

They reached for the iron handle of the Scrying Eye. Theo pulled out a vial filled with brown liquid. He uncorked it before pouring it onto the crystal. The orb seemed to absorb the mixture, tinting the space around the eye a dark burgundy. The iron handle began to heat up. The eye began spinning wildly, before it stopped abruptly, staring straight up. 

Then the space around them seemed to bend and contort and they were off. 

~~

They found themselves outside of a rickety looking house surrounded by thick woods. Hermione had her wand up in the air as soon as they landed shakily in the side garden. Harry and Ron quickly flanked her with Ginny and Theo behind them. 

“Wasn’t this thing supposed to bring us to Malfoy?”

Hermione turned to Theo at Ron’s question. “It brought us as close as it could. There are wards.” 

The Eye had brought them here because Draco was nearby. Hermione prayed to whoever was listening that he wasn’t hurt and couldn’t even consider anything past that. 

He would be fine. He had to be. 

They quickly cast Silencing Charms on shoes to muffle their footsteps before walking towards the porch. Once they were there, Ron cast a Homenum Revelio. Six markers appeared, congregated in a cluster.

Harry quickly cast a modified Revelio, showing the protective wards that encase the large house. Ron came up beside him and they began to meticulously pick apart the magic. It would have been impressive if Hermione hadn’t been holding her breath for the sound of a Caterwauling Charm. Finally, the last of the wards fell without a sound. 

Hermione reached for the doorknob and Harry cast a Silencing Spell on the hinges and Ron threw up a Protego. Once it was open, she stepped forward. The room was empty, save for furniture covered with dusty sheets. No lights were on, and the home appeared abandoned. Suddenly they heard voices coming from upstairs, along with what sounded like grunts of pain and dull thuds.

Theo lunged for the stairs, but Hermione pulled him back. “Stop. We can’t just storm them without a plan. That’s how you get hurt.” 

He looked up the stairs where another grunt echoed from but looked back to Hermione with understanding. 

“Okay, good. Harry.”

Harry stepped closer. “Nott, you and Ron are in charge of Shielding and Deflecting. Ginny, I need you in the back Silencing the stairs, so they don’t hear us. Hermione, you’re with me on offensive spells. Ginny, once we’re past the stairs, you’re on offensive with us.” 

Everyone agreed on their roles and soon they were silently ascending the stairs, Theo and Ron’s Shield Charm leading them. Once they made it to the second floor, the narrow space forced them to huddle tight. The voices were louder now and coming from their left. 

Suddenly a door to their right opened, a man staring at them in shock. He began to raise his wand when in a flurry, Harry Stunned him and Theo grabbed his arm, stopping the man from making a loud thud as he slumped to the floor. Hermione’s heart thudded loudly in her chest as she stared at the man, not recognising him. He wasn’t one of the Snatchers that had taken Draco. Waves of adrenaline washed over her, and she shook herself, trying to clear her head.

The voices had become quieter, and she realised now was the time. Theo and Ron resumed their Protegos and as a group, they quickly made their way to just outside the door. Hermione looked back at everyone before taking a deep breath and pushing forward. 

Shouts sounded from in front of them as spells bounced into their shields.

A man that Hermione recognised as Trowley deflected her Stunner before he cast a particularly nasty curse that fizzled against the shield before her. Definitely not just Stunners. They were aiming to hurt. 

Hermione heard an oof before seeing Ginny’s leg buckle, blood spurting out from her calf. 

“Ginny! Out!” Hermione screamed, throwing her own Protego up, hoping that there wasn’t an Anti-Apparition Ward. While grabbing her injury, Ginny looked at Hornwood angrily before nodding, and Disapparating with a pop.

“What are you doing here, Granger! Get the fuck out!”

Bound in ropes with his arms behind his back, Draco was kneeling on the floor. It was the first time Hermione had seen him in so long. He looked thinner than she had last remembered, and fresh bruises coloured his face. His nose was dripping blood that was trailing down his mouth and chin. Dawson, who appeared to be breathing, but unconscious, was in a ball on the floor.

The source of the grunts of pain were now obvious, which only spurred Hermione on as she shot a Diffindo at Hornwood. The bastard threw up a Protego a second too slowly, the spell clipping him in the shoulder. It was enough damage to cause him to start bleeding, but it only seemed to anger the wizard more.

“Leave! Leave now, Granger! I don’t want you! I told you; it was all fake!” Draco yelled, his voice sounding hoarse from screaming. 

“Oh, shut up, will you!” Hermione screamed back, jumping out of the line of fire of a Cruciatus. When Draco realised the spell that Hornwood had shot, he attempted to crawl on his knees to get to the Snatcher. Hornwood didn’t even look down, just kicked Draco in the gut while he cast his own shield. 

Hermione screamed as Draco fell to the floor, sucking in short bursts of air. Without another thought, she shot a powerful Stunner the second his shield fell, hitting the man straight in the chest. The moment he started to fall, she cast an Incarcerous, ensuring even if he woke up, he would be incapacitated. 

Ron, Theo, and Harry continued to duel Trowley and another man that Hermione didn’t recognise. Theo shot a questionable curse at Trowley, the skin on his arm blistering and falling away. He screamed and began slinging curses at random. Harry managed to disarm him, the wand flying clear across the room.

Seeing that they were handling themselves just fine, Hermione started for Draco, who was still gasping on the floor. 

A painful yank of her hair reeled her backwards with a squeal. 

“Not so fast, Missy.” A large hand wrapped itself in her hair while another gripped her arm so tightly, Hermione feared the bone would snap right then and there. “You thought you got the best of Higgs with that little Stunner. Your friend should have bound me like you did with Hornwood. Werewolves don’t stay down with a Stunner as long as regular folk do.” His breath was hot against her cheek as she felt the tip of a wand dig into her neck. “That’s right, Missy. A handy little gift from old Greyback. Now you’re going to tell your friends to stop fighting.”

Hermione’s eyes prickled with tears as her yanked on her hair once more.

 “I won’t,” she spat at him.

“Wrong answer.” 

Suddenly a burning sensation seared the front of her thigh as she screamed. All eyes fell on her as blood began to pool out of the wound. 

All eyes, including Draco’s. He started violently fighting against his binds. Once more on his knees, he stared at Hermione with horror.

“Don’t you fucking touch her!” he screamed. “Get your fucking hands off her now!” 

“And what are you going to do about it? Bleed on me?” Higgs laughed cruelly. “Now stop fighting before I slice her neck instead of her leg.” 

Ron, Theo and Harry stared at Hermione for a moment. She shook her head, trying to communicate to not listen but they slowly raised their arms. 

“That’s what I thought. You know, I was mad about this little attack at first, but it ended up being quite fun. I’ve even caught myself a prize.” Higgs pulled Hermione’s head back before leaning into her neck and inhaling deeply.

“Get your disgusting hands off of her! I’ll fucking kill you! You don’t even want her! You want me! Come fight me!” 

“Trowley.” 

The Snatcher closest to Draco reared a fist back, and smashed it into Draco’s face, a sickening wet thump echoing through the room on impact. 

Hermione whimpered as she watched Draco struggle to stay on his knees as Trowley unbound Hornwood and revived him. 

Higgs pulled once more on her hair. “You know, I used to think Muggle brawls were boring. Why use your fists when you can slice, burn, flay with your wand? But then I killed that Muggle with my bare hands in Taw Hill and I must admit, it suddenly made sense. I could feel him dying under my touch. It was the closest thing I’ve felt to a wolf kill before the full moon. It was invigorating. I told Trowley here how amazing it was. I was almost sad I had to kill the next one with a Killing Curse. It lacked all the finesse. Now you, you, I want to use my hands for.”

Garbled words were coming out of Draco now. He was swaying on his knees, still fighting against the bonds. 

Harry, Ron, and Theo all looked ready to jump in, but wands were pointed against them, threatening death in a blink of an eye. 

Hermione knew it was now or never. 

Without giving herself a moment to second guess, she used her heel to jam Higgs in the foot with all her strength. At the same time, she aimed a Bombarda Maxima at where the Snatchers stood, hoping to not hit her friends. The explosion went off as Higgs howled, releasing her in the sudden chaos. She shot a Diffiendo behind her without looking. She ran to where Draco and Dawson were, praying to Apparate them to safety. She refused to even consider the possibility of Splinching. She was about to make contact with Draco who was looking at her with glassy eyes when she saw his face twist with fear. He screamed right as she felt the curse hit her in the back.

Immediately, she felt as though all the flesh on her back was being burned off. Hermione fell, unable to get a breath in. Her hand lay outstretched, a few inches from Draco. The pain was travelling down her arms and legs, and her vision was beginning to tunnel. 

She was going to pass out. Maybe even die. 

Oh. 

As her vision became blurry, she continued to stare at Draco. Even covered in blood and tears, he looked beautiful. Like her Draco. 

He was desperately trying to crawl on his knees and chest, using his shoulders to get as close to her as possible. His mouth was moving rapidly, but Hermione couldn’t hear any words past the ringing in her ears.

Finally, his cheek touched her hand. It was wet and sticky against her palm. 

He was close enough for his voice to be barely audible over the ringing. “Granger, Granger please, stay awake. Just stay awake. Please, please.” 

Hermione hated how broken it sounded.

“Granger, please, open your eyes, please, Hermione please. I lied. It was all a lie. Please, don’t leave me.”

Funny, Hermione could have sworn her eyes had been open. Now that he mentioned it, she realised the room had gone dark. The burning in her body had stopped, too. With the absence of the flames, she felt cold now. She used the little strength she had left to rub her thumb against the skin of his cheek. 

She wanted to tell him that she hated him, that she loved him, that he made her want to tear down every wall she had ever built, that the after she experienced without him was awful, that she needed him, missed him, wanted him, but she didn’t have energy for any of it. 

So, she said the one word that summarised all of the different emotions she wanted to convey. 

"Draco.”

Notes:

Oh wow, things are going off! Thank you so much following along and huge thanks for all the love and support!

Thank you, thank you to my betas, rompeprop and noxhunter! Ya'll take time from you busy days to help my fic and I appreciate it so much!

Thank you for being patient about this chapter. Life got busy, ya'll! The posting schedule for the last two chapters might be a little wonky. I am hoping to get 29 up before next Sunday but it depends on my schedule and the schedules of my betas. If not, expect 29 on Sunday with 30 to follow shortly!

This was written while I blasted my Dramione writing playlist and had the curtains closed. I was being a moody bitch.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 29

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione’s entire body ached. 

That was the first thought that came to her when consciousness trickled back.

She ached and her eyelids felt so, so heavy. 

When Hermione was eight, she had needed tubes placed in her ears to help with frequent ear infections. The entire procedure had apparently only taken ten minutes to complete, but Hermione hadn’t remembered anything past the extreme sleepiness she felt when the anaesthesia pulled her under, and the feeling of wading through quicksand as she fought to wake up afterwards.

She felt as though she was reliving that experience. She willed her limbs to move, her eyelids to lift, but everything felt so impossibly heavy. 

She wasn’t dead. She knew that at least. 

The last thing she remembered was cradling Draco’s cheek in her hand and wishing she had just a few more seconds with him. As she wondered if he was alright, she fought against the grogginess even harder. 

“Hey, hey you’re alright, I’m right here. You’re safe, Hermione.” Ginny’s soothing voice sounded far away. Hermione tried to ask if everyone was safe, if Draco was safe, but the heaviness won, and Hermione slipped into oblivion once more. 

~~

The next time Hermione woke up, someone was rubbing circles on her hand. She could also swear whoever it was, was humming. The tune felt familiar, but she couldn’t place it. 

She wanted to ask what song it was or to show her appreciation for how lovely the circles on her hand felt, but she quickly realised she was sinking back into the deep pits of exhaustion. 

As she was slipping under, she remembered where had heard the song. It was played at the Yule Ball. Right before she had stormed out with Ron, a waltz played for the students that remained late into the evening. Hermione had gone to look for Viktor but hadn’t found him. In her search, her eyes caught none other than Draco Malfoy’s, who was slowly spinning on the dance floor with Pansy Parkinson. Hermione hated that she thought he had looked handsome. She was about to turn away, sure a sneer was headed her direction, but it never came. 

It had been a peculiar thing. 

They stared at one another for the last remaining moments of the waltz. Hermione had forgotten about it until just now, when the voice faintly hummed the same tune. 

And then it all went quiet once more. 

~~

The third time she woke up, Hermione could hear Ron’s voice. 

“I don’t like you. I’m not sure I’ll ever like you, but you fixed her. You fixed her when I didn’t even realise, she was broken.” It was such an honest and naked confession that she wasn’t sure she had heard correctly. 

There was silence, a brief pause that went on seemingly forever to Hermione, who knew that the darkness was not far. 

“I didn’t fix her. She was never broken in the first place. I just gave her the attention and time she needed to realise that even if she was broken, I accepted her.” Draco's beautiful voice was calm. She wanted to grasp onto every syllable, wanted to jump up and yell, ‘I’m here! I’m alright!’. 

They did not speak any more after that and Hermione slipped back under.

~~

When Hermione came to her senses, she knew this time was different. She was still exhausted, but it wasn’t the same all-encompassing exhaustion that she had felt in her fleeting moments of lucidity.

She quickly sat up, afraid that if she didn’t hold onto consciousness, she would fall back asleep for who knew how long. 

The Healers had checked her over and explained she had been in a magically induced coma for three days to heal a particularly nasty dark curse that had hit her in the back. She had tried to ask a million questions, but they insisted someone would arrive shortly to speak with her. When she inquired about Draco, a younger Healer just gave a knowing smile before handing Hermione a disgusting potion to take. 

If they weren’t going to answer anything, she refused to stay in the small room. She needed out, needed to breathe fresh air after being asleep for three days. That's how Hermione found herself sitting on the bench, playing with the end of her plait. She wondered if Ginny had done it while she slept. 

She saw movement out of the corner of her eye and turned to see Ron sitting down next to her. If Hermione was being honest with herself, she missed the familiar comfort his presence gave her. 

“It’s so good to see you awake, Hermione. I’m sorry you were alone. We all agreed we wanted someone with you when you woke up, but some things got in the way.” 

“Ron, why didn’t we work out?” The words were soft as they left her mouth. She had often wondered about it and had been too afraid to ask, but a near-death experience made it seem important to ask. 

He didn’t say anything for a while as Hermione stared out ahead of her, enjoying the sunlight against her tender skin. 

“For a long time, I would have said the timing wasn’t right. After the Battle, everything was still so raw and open. We had a lot to get through before we would have been ready to start anything. When we started seeing each other casually I thought maybe it would happen, but we were just in two different places. I recognise now that you needed help from me in a way that I didn’t need so I didn't see it. I’m sorry about that, Hermione, I really am. Now that I look back at it though, we could have made it happen at any point. We just didn’t. We were comfortable being on the cusp. I thought that meant we were waiting to start a relationship since we knew we would end up together forever, but neither of us really felt the push to do it. I guess what I’m trying to say is we didn’t work because maybe deep down we knew we wouldn’t, so we never even tried.”

Hermione digested each word carefully. “That’s really insightful, Ron. How did you get so smart?”

“I had a friend who made me study a lot growing up.” 

She grinned down at her knees.

She had missed this Ron, her friend who gave surprisingly deep answers and made her feel safe. 

“We should probably head back inside. I imagine there will be a search party if the others don’t lay eyes on you soon.” 

He helped her stand on her still weak legs, and they slowly made their way back to her hospital room. When they arrived, a red blur ran to her and wrapped in a fierce hug. 

“Ginny, let her breathe. She only woke up a little bit ago.”

“Sorry, sorry.” Ginny backed away but continued to hold Hermione’s hand. “I’m just really happy you’re alright.” She used her free hand to quickly wipe her eyes. 

Ron helped as Hermione climbed back into the hospital bed as Harry sat at the end. “Hermione, what happened to ‘if you’re injured, Disapparate immediately’?”

“I was trying to think on my feet. How did everything go down, anyways?”

“Ginny Apparated back in. It was bloody brilliant. She used the Scrying Eye, which was still in Harry’s office, and tracked Draco by using the remaining amount of essence. It was lucky there was enough. She came charging back in and Stunned the Snatchers. We made sure to bind them all.”

“That’s amazing. Everyone else was safe?”

“Dawson was pretty banged up but is down the hall, recovering.”

Hermione kept glancing at the door. She knew Draco was safe, had heard him by her bed, but she didn’t know where he was.

“He’s finishing up some questions at the Ministry. I’m sure he’ll be back any moment.” Harry offered, answering her silent question. 

“Oh, god, the Ministry.” Hermione croaked.

“It’s alright. We all heard Higgs confess to the murders and we were able to disarm them quick enough that he couldn’t use a memory charm to alter anything. And as soon as we got back, Bones made an official statement and offered up her memories as well. Robards was furious, benched her for at least a year,” Harry supplied. 

“That’s it? She framed a man for murder.”

“Malfoy asked for us to take Azkaban off the table. Said he didn’t want it on his conscience. She’ll be on probation for a long time and there is a good chance Robards sacks her.”

“So… the charges are dropped?” 

Harry nodded, grabbing her hand to hold it gently. “The charges are dropped. Codsworth is in custody. Turns out he had been working with low level Death Eaters who were angry about the war and were looking for a new leader. And Codsworth’s initiatives to keep Muggleborns out of the Ministry weren’t passing as he wanted, and he decided to take matters into his own hands. What he didn’t expect was for his lackeys to go rogue and go after Malfoy. Apparently, they felt he deserved punishment for sullying a Sacred Twenty-Eight bloodline.”

“I’m disappointed I wasn’t there to see Codsworth realise he lost,” Hermione lamented. 

“Don’t worry. You’ll be able to be a witness at his trial.”

“Granger!” 

Hermione snapped her head towards the door with such force, it made her dizzy. Huffing and leaning on the doorframe, Draco stood, staring only at her. 

He wore his usual crisp robes. Bruises still covered his face in various stages of healing. He was always bruised and battered, her husband. 

“That’s our cue to get out of here.” Ginny smiled and gave Hermione a quick kiss on the cheek before pulling her husband and brother along, promising to visit soon. Hermione just nodded; her eyes still fixed to the man in the doorframe. 

And then they were alone. 

God, there was so much she wanted to tell him. She had thought about what she would say to him when they were finally in the same room, but her mind went blank as she stared at him. Real, safe, there.  

“Hi.” 

He suddenly flung himself from the doorframe and practically ran to her side. His hands touched her hair, her cheeks, cradled her shoulders, slid down her arms, as he assessed every part that wasn’t hidden by her starched hospital linens. Tears trickled out of corners of his eyes and his lips quivered. He apologised over and over, in soft and broken bursts. 

Hermione finally reached for his wrists and pulled his hands from where they were now holding her cheeks. He sobbed harder as he stared down at his empty palms. 

“I love you, but if you ever do any of that again, I will fucking end you.” 

He nodded profusely, hands shaking under her touch. 

It suddenly dawned on Hermione that she held all the cards. If she chose to walk away from him, he would allow it. If she told him to get out of her room, he would go. It also dawned on her that their future wasn’t linked because she had married him to save his life, it would be linked because she would choose it. She would choose him. 

After he grovelled for a long while. 

“I have questions, and you are going to answer each and every one of them with nothing but the truth. Do I make myself clear?”

He nodded again, his hand desperately seeking to touch her. She released his wrists, and he immediately reached for her hands before hesitating. She held his grasp with firm hands. He exhaled slowly before sitting on the edge of the bed. 

“Why did I wake up at the cottage alone and find you gone, having turned yourself in?”

“I woke up and watched you sleep for a long time. I don’t know if you know this, but you talk in your sleep sometimes. Not full sentences, just a word here or there. I would sometimes try to stay awake and see if you would say anything. It felt like a window into that head of yours. So, there I was, watching you sleep and you spoke.”

“What did I say?”

“‘Don’t go.’ It was clear as day. When you said it your voice broke a little and your hand reached out for me. And it broke my heart. I got up a few minutes later and turned myself in.”

“That was so incredibly selfish.”

“I know. I knew how much it hurts to wake up alone and I still did it. I’m sorry.” 

“You said awful things to me.”

He rubbed his trembling lips against each other before speaking. “Codsworth threatened to incarcerate you if I didn’t keep you away. He was smart enough to know you could unravel everything.”

“You said all those things without even Occluding. You called me a Mudblood.”

He whimpered before biting a lip, his eyes closing as if he had been hit, but still he nodded. “I did. I am so sorry.”

He didn’t offer any excuses, didn’t try to take any of the blame off himself, just accepted his wrongdoings. And in the end, no  number of words could excuse what he has said. It would take time to heal. 

“Did you know your mother and Theo were planning to approach me to marry you?”

He shook his head quickly. “No. I found out about the Gallows Marriage Law the moment you proposed to me.”

“You had Ron show me the memory of Cora Jones. Why?”

He flinched hard before swallowing. “I did. I was hoping that if you saw me like that you would give up on me.”

“I considered it.” 

He flinched again. “It’s the single worst thing I’ve ever done in my life. I’d completely understand if you had.”

“You seemed so hateful. You gave her to Greyback and then killed her like she was nothing.”

A soft keening noise came from his throat as his head dropped. His shoulders shook. 

“I was so scared. I didn’t want to be hurt or for my mother to pay for my failures. I didn’t want Cora to be cut into pieces. So, I used the Cruciatus. I focused all my anger at the war into that singular spell and tortured her. When Greyback came, there was no winning. Bellatrix wouldn’t let her live and asking me if I could give Cora to Greyback was a test. And in that moment, I chose myself. When they stepped out, I was angry she even existed. She represented all the ways I was lacking. She was brave and she had those big brown eyes and suddenly I realised who I was in the world. I wasn’t good, or strong, or smart. I’d always be a monster hidden in the walls of a beautiful manor. I hated that house, I hated my family, I hated the cage I was born into. I was trapped. But she didn’t need to be. It was over a moment later.”

“So, all that hatred in your face?”

“It was for me. For being a coward and giving into becoming a monster.”

“Don’t ever try to manipulate me like that again. If you ever use my friends against me like that, this ends.”

“I promise. I'm so sorry, I promise.” He squeezed her hands gently. 

“Why are you all bruised up still?”

He chuckled weakly; his eyes still glassy. “They tried to heal me when you were asleep. I didn’t let them.”

“Why?”

“I didn’t want their focus on anything but you. It also didn’t seem fair to be okay when you were so obviously not okay.”

“It must have been uncomfortable.”

“I thought I was watching you die, unable to even hold you. Nothing can ever compare to that kind of pain.” 

Hermione softened at those words. She squeezed his hands gently. “That must have been very scary.”

He stared at her. As he held her gaze, any amount of composure he had scraped together, fell apart. His shoulders sank and he began to sob. 

That’s when Hermione felt the emotion she hadn’t let touch her in fear she would never escape, catch up. She wrapped her arms around Draco as she gripped his robes in her hands. His tears gathered against her neck, and she felt her own wet the fine strands of blonde beneath her cheek. 

“I’m sorrier than you’ll ever know, Hermione. And I thought you would die before I ever had the chance to give you the apology you deserve. Not to absolve my own conscience, but because you don’t deserve to be treated like you don’t matter. You matter . I am so sorry for all the moments in my life that I ever made you feel like you weren’t everything that you are.

“When I was in Azkaban, I missed the sun. I could handle the dark during the war because I knew no matter what, in a few hours the morning light would end it, but in that cell, there was no end. The dark had never felt so dark before. And then you came for me. You’re my sun, Hermione. Your light is what wakes me each day and thoughts of you are what accompany me to sleep each night. I am content to just be near you, to bask in your warmth. I orbit around you. 

“I don’t love you because you’re clever or because you saved the world or because you saved my world. I could be thankful to you without ever needing you like I do. I love you because the idea of not being near you sounds exactly like how I imagined the Kiss would have been. I would be walking around without my soul. And I will spend as long as it takes to earn your trust again and show you that you matter, not because of what you’ve done, but because of who you are.” 

Hermione held him even tighter as he whispered the words into the skin of her neck. They stayed that way for a while until he pulled back. 

“You must be exhausted. You need your rest. Lay down.”

“I’m afraid you’ll be gone when I wake up.” 

“I’m not going anywhere. There’s nowhere else I’d rather be. I’m here. I’ll be here if you want me.”

She wanted to tell him that she wanted him, always, but he had begun rubbing soothing circles on her hand. She was warm from where his body lay by hers and soon, she was being pulled back into that deep sleep. She wasn’t scared this time. She knew there would be time to tell him everything later.

~~

Hermione woke up the next morning, Draco wrapped around her, his fingers tangled in her hospital gown. A Healer walked into the room to check Hermione’s vitals. She gave her a disapproving look and Hermione raised an eyebrow at her in return. Once she was done, she shut the door quietly behind her, giving Hermione a small grin. 

Hermione didn’t move until Draco began to stir thirty minutes later. He blinked a few times before sitting up and turning to Hermione. His hands once more checked over her face, her neck, her shoulders, her arms. 

“I’m fine. I feel much better today.”

Her words barely seemed to register as he continued to touch every inch of her before she grabbed his hands. “I’m fine, Draco. I promise I’m fine.”

He seemed to come out of whatever trance he was in. His bruises looked someone worse, shifting to blotchy greens and browns. 

“I want you to heal your bruises.”

His hand reached up to his still split lip. “I’m fine. I don’t want to bother the Healers.”

“Nonsense. I’m perfectly capable of healing you right now.”

“You shouldn’t exert yourself. It’s just a few scratches.”

“Draco, you’re half covered in bruises and your lip looks like it’ll begin to bleed at any second. I feel fine. Pass me my wand.”

“I’m really fin–”

“You told me that I mattered. Well, you matter too. You’re important.” 

He didn’t move right away, but soon he reached for her wand from a small bedside table. 

The first time Hermione had healed Draco, he stared past her at a wall. He didn’t look away from her even once when she healed him now. She moved delicately, precise to not leave any scars. He gazed at her, his silver eyes burning brightly. He leaned into her touch, nuzzling his cheek against her hands. 

“I realised something.” His voice was so soft that it took Hermione a moment to respond to it.

“What?” She continued to work. 

“I thought I was an inherently bad person for a very long time. I looked at the members of my family and thought it was in my makeup. But then I was faced with losing my life or losing you, and the decision was easy. Then I watched as Susan Bones, a Hufflepuff I barely remembered, was being attacked right before me and without even thinking, I tried to pull her out of the line of fire on instinct. Even when we were in that disgusting house, there was that Auror bleeding on the floor from a splinched hand. They were having fun hitting him. 

“The old me would have been thankful to have the attention away from me, but instead, I told them to hit me instead. Draco from five years ago would have never done that. And then I realised I’m not him anymore. I made mistakes that will stay with me for the rest of my life, but I am not him anymore. And that Draco wasn’t inherently evil. He was a child who made bad choices out of the terrible options life provided him. I may never be brave like you are, or as self-sacrificing as Potter, but I’m not a bad person. I’m growing, and changing, and I can be a better person if I choose to be.

“You saw that in me before I saw in myself. But in the end, you couldn’t believe it for me. I needed to make that choice for myself. I’m liking it, you know. Making my own choices.”

Hermione felt her heart clench as she lowered her wand. He gave her a soft smile. 

“You aren’t a bad person, Draco.” she whispered.

“I know. It’ll take some time for me to completely believe it but I’m working on it.”

He leaned forward and wrapped his arms around her, holding her close. She felt feather-light kisses peppered against her temple and brow. 

She felt safe.

~~

Hermione was released from St. Mungo’s later that day, equipped with an arsenal of potions she had to take for a month, and beautiful bouquets from friends, even a lovely arrangement of daisies from Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. 

Hannah had come to visit her, much to her delight. When she asked if there was anything that she could do to help, Hermione finally asked for the information for a Mind Healer. Hannah had often mentioned that a Mind Healer could be helpful for a lot of people, but she had never inquired. It had felt like giving up somehow, like she was admitting that she wasn’t coping as well as everyone else. 

But she wasn’t. 

It was a difficult lesson for Hermione to learn but it wasn’t fair to share her life with someone when she hadn’t been fully living hers. She wasn’t an island, separate from the rest of the world. She had friends, she had coworkers, she had a family.

Hannah just smiled gently and gave Hermione a small business card that she slipped into her pocket. 

It was strange arriving back at the cottage. Everything was exactly where Hermione had left it but it felt different. Warmer, perhaps even slightly brighter. Crookshanks immediately began weaving around Hermione’s legs before Draco picked him up, insisting the beast was a tripping hazard, but she didn’t miss the way he affectionately scratched him under the chin. Draco told her he had checked up on the cat when one of the others had been with her at St. Mungos. 

Hermione grimaced as she reached back to her plaited hair. She wondered how awful the tangling would be since she didn’t know when Ginny had done it. 

“Do you need help with your hair?”

Hermione didn’t expect the question as she fiddled with the hairband. “Oh, it’s alright. It can be rather unruly and hard to manage.”

“Just sit down, Granger.” He pulled out a chair for her in the kitchen. The sun had set, and darkness surrounded the cottage. 

Draco slipped the hairband from the end of the plait. Using nimble fingers, he began to gently unweave the thick strands. When her hair was finally free, he gently massaged her scalp, releasing the tension she hadn’t been aware was present. 

“One moment.” He left and quickly returned, holding a hairbrush. 

“Oh, no–”

Hermione was quickly cut off as Draco began to carefully brush her hair. She stared at their figures in the glass pane. The inky darkness of the English countryside allowed their full reflection to shine back at them. 

“Wow. I thought for sure it would be a tangled mess.”

“I brushed it while you were asleep.”

“What?” she whispered; not sure she had heard correctly.

“Ginny showed me how to brush it without hurting you and then how to plait it. Trickier than one would expect. Women really are the smarter of the sexes.”

“Why did she teach you?”

“Because I asked her to. I had run my hand through your hair and my fingers got snagged. The Healers were so busy with your care that first day that I didn’t want to bother them. So I asked Ginny to show me. She looked at me like I had grown a second head at first but obliged. I brushed and plaited your hair every day that you were asleep. I couldn’t make you heal faster, and wake up but I could do this.”

She stared at his reflection as he began to separate the hair into careful sections. His long fingers were slow but steady as they began to weave the strands together. 

A cloud passed in the sky and stars peeked out in the sky. They illuminated the space above Draco’s reflection, like a beautiful painting. Hermione watched as her husband plaited the hair he had made fun of their entire childhood, framed by the stars. She almost didn’t notice as the sight became blurrier until she felt the tears splatter gently onto her folded hands in her lap. 

Draco secured her hair once more with the hairband, carefully smoothing over the top of her head with a soft hand. When he was done, he looked up at their reflection and startled at Hermione crying before it turned into an understanding smile. He slipped a hand to her cheek and held her mirrored gaze. 

Hermione felt cracked open at that moment, only this time the idea didn’t terrify her. She shared it willingly and invited him to witness it. 

And he did. 

Draco held her cheek and with his touch, reassured her that he was there, that he supported her, loved her, and didn’t need her to carry the weight of the world on her shoulders. 

He expected nothing and accepted everything. 

~~

“So how’s everything going with the Ministry?” Andromeda asked as she took a sip from a beautiful teacup. 

Hermione set her own cup down. “Still a bit chaotic. Alderton, Towler, and Kettleburn were impeached from the Wizengamot for bribery. Towler was also sacked from his job at the Patent office due to discrimination. Turns out Codsworth kept meticulous accounts of those in his favour, which didn’t help his case. So, there will be open seats that the other members will be voting on soon. There are even a few Muggleborns in the running. They’ll also be voting on a new Chief Warlock which should be interesting. Susan was let go from the DMLE. Robards is also under investigation, and he wanted to make sure he took a firm stand against her illegal actions.”

“Harry mentioned how disappointed he was for not realising what she was up to.”

Hermione sighed. “She was a good Auror. She knew how to cover her tracks. Harry has an amazing instinct, honestly, he could become head of the DMLE, but he’s not a mind reader.”

“People who have been expected to be great their entire lives carry that burden with them for a long time. All three of you have that in common - you, Harry, and Draco.”

“Don’t let the boys hear you say you think they have something in common.”

“If they could get their own heads out of their arses, I think they would quickly realise what good friends they could be.”

Hermione choked on her tea at the poised woman’s crassness. 

Andromeda grinned at Hermione before it morphed into something more thoughtful. “How are you doing, dear?”

Hermione paused before she answered. She knew what she would have said before that she was fine, that everything was absolutely fine, but she somehow knew that Andromeda didn’t want false reassurances. 

“It’s hard still. Only a week has passed since… everything. I still wake up terrified Draco will be gone, that the Ministry will storm our cottage and take him. I think being asleep when all of that was hashing out makes it feel somehow unresolved to me. But I met with a Mind Healer the other day. It went well, I think. I’m going to keep going, anyways.

Andromeda smiled. “I’m happy for you, Hermione. Growing up in a Pureblood family, that wasn’t talked about. It was considered a taboo to admit to anything that could be considered a fault. I think about all the people who could have benefitted from any type of help but would never reach out for it due to societal expectations. Maybe it wouldn’t have taken Draco five years to realise he was more than his mother and father’s son. Maybe Narcissa could have realised she was more than just a product of what the world expected her to be.” The woman’s smile fell. 

“I think Narcissa made her choice on who she wants to be.”

Andromeda shook her head gently. “Don’t be quite so sure. I know it’s easy to pin her as nothing more than a bigot in a big mansion, and you wouldn’t be wrong for it. But she fought against it, in her own small ways.”

“Telling Tom that Harry was dead you mean?”

“That was one way, but there have been others. Have you ever wondered where the Lycanthropy Wing got the rest of its funding?”

“Are you suggesting that Narcissa Malfoy funded a hospital wing dedicated to creatures?”

“There are not many people with the funds available to make that large of a donation. She also sent me a letter inquiring about Teddy’s health and well-being, right before the anonymous donation was made.”

“I didn’t realise you two were in contact.”

“Oh, we aren’t. She never responded to my letter in return. But I sent her his birth announcement when he was born, just as I did with Nymphadora. She is my sister after all.”

Hermione sat, dazed by the new information. “I’m not sure Draco wants her in his life. I’m not sure I want her in my life.”

“That’s completely understandable. A single act doesn’t absolve her of her wrongdoings. I just hope that if she ever does come to Draco, truly penitent of her actions, he won’t push her away in fear that she is a representation of his own past mistakes. I’d like to think we are all capable of change. I ended up changing. So did Draco. We were lucky to have someone show us that you can be flawed and still accepted. Cissa didn’t have the same luxury.”

Hermione let Andromeda’s words sink as she watched Draco chase Teddy through the window. The little boy had cried when he was finally able to see his cousin. Hermione herself had choked up when she saw Draco bite his lip to hide the quivering as he held Teddy close. They had gone off to fly Teddy’s toy broom. 

As she watched the cousins laugh, she had to remind herself that Draco was free. He still couldn’t have a wand, they still needed to live together, and they were still legally required to stay married for five years, but the charges had been dropped. He had been given a warning against getting into brawls but at the end of the day, it was a Muggle crime, nothing more than a Disturbance of the Peace. 

She wasn’t completely fine. She had moments when she was scared, when it was all still so overwhelming but with time, she could be. 

The Floo in the sitting room burst into flames as Hermione looked up. Stepping out was Theo. 

“I am sorry for this. I told the boy he could come over because he begged, rather pathetically. But I made it very clear that one word from you, the invitation would be rescinded.”

Theo looked at her, his eyes hopeful. 

Hermione sighed. “I suppose he can stay.”

Theo visibly released the breath he had been holding before slowly walking to the small table that sat at. 

“I’m going to go check up on those two outside. Call me if you need anything. And you–” she pointed at Theo, “Don’t push. She’ll forgive you only if she wants to and is ready.” 

Theo nodded diligently before sitting in the chair Andromeda had vacated. They stared at each other as the woman clicked the door shut behind her. 

“You seem fairly comfortable with Andromeda.”

“I’m not. I’ve only met her once before when I came to help Draco show Teddy some flying moves. The witch came around a corner and I about jumped from my skin thinking it was Bellatrix. I ended up finding out about the Lycanthropy Wing and decided to donate. I was dropping off my donation when she mentioned you were coming over. She wasn’t lying when she called me pathetic. I begged her to let me visit as well. Draco has been expertly refusing my requests. Honestly, I’m sure he won’t be happy I’m here now. He’s very protective, that husband of yours.”

Hermione hummed before taking a sip of her tea. “If you have something to say, you should say it.”

“Right. Yes. Well, I wanted to say that I’m so happy you’re alright. I watched you get hit and… and I couldn’t believe it. You’re the strongest person I know. Weasley, Potter, and I were just standing there. I was so scared when Higgs had you but you just made a decision and went for it. Fuck, Potter and Weasley are damn good Aurors and even they froze.”

“Are you here to suggest a change in my career?”

Theo flushed. “No, sorry. I’m- I’m getting off topic. I owe you a proper apology. I know you said it wasn’t the time before, but then when you got hurt, I thought there wouldn’t be a time. Hermione, I am so sorry. What I did was reprehensible. I was so focused on saving Draco that I didn’t care who I had to use to free him. Narcissa had been ransacking the Manor Library looking for anything that could save him. Then she found the Gallows Marriage Law. I went through every available witch I could think of and then I saw an article about you in the paper. You were fighting for protected lands for centaurs. Everyone knows that centaurs notoriously rebuke help from the Wizarding world, but you didn’t care. You saw a group that needed to be protected and stepped right in. And then I went to visit Draco, and there you were, already trying to protect him.

“I'm sorry. I should have told you the entire truth. I took your ability to make a fully informed decision and then called myself your friend. I haven’t come across too many people who would be willing to do that. Pureblood witches are raised to be many things, but unbridled selflessness isn’t typically taught by tutors. That's what I came here to say. I can understand if you don’t want to be my friend any longer.”

Theo shrugged his shoulders while giving her a sad smile.

Hermione searched his eyes and found little past sincerity reflecting at her. 

“That was a pretty good apology,” she grumbled.

“Thank you. I practised with Tippi a few times. She is very eloquent.”

“If I agree to be friends, you have to promise to not lie to me anymore.”

“A completely fair request.”

“If you do, I’ll make sure the DMLE raids every property that has ever been owned by a Nott.”

“I fully believe you would do that.” 

She reached her hand out, aiming to shake on it, but when Theo grasped her, he stood and gently pulled her up before entangling her in a strong hug. 

“I missed you.” he murmured into her hair. 

Hermione hugged back. “I missed you too, Theo.”

~~

Hermione felt more at ease than she had anticipated. She had expected anger and disgust, but as she watched Augustus Codsworth brought into the courtroom shackled and wearing a familiar jumpsuit, she felt calm. 

He sat in a lone chair in the centre of the room, the rows of raised seating filled with Wizengamot members and witnesses alike. 

The evidence was stacked against him. A confession from Susan Bones, credible memories from Dawson, Harry, and Ron, and confessions under Veritaserum from the Snatchers. They had approached Codsworth, having remembered his allegiance to Pureblood Supremacy during the war, even though he himself hadn’t been a Death Eater. Wizengamot took turns speaking, asking questions, and presenting evidence. 

And then it was time for witness testimonies. 

Draco squeezed Hermione’s hand before she stood up. 

“My name is Hermione Malfoy. As many of you know, I was a member of Dumbedore’s Army, and I am currently an employee of the Ministry. Many of you also know that I am Muggleborn. I came into the magical world unfamiliar with its currency, its language and its customs. I had gone my entire life without knowing I was a witch, and yet the moment I stepped into Diagon Alley, I felt like I was coming home. My magic had always been there. Magic knew who I was before I ever received a letter or held a wand. Like all of you, it’s in my bones and soul. It’s in my blood. 

“Then a war occurred. I was told that it did not matter if magic had chosen me, Wizarding Britain did not. Voldemort and his followers claimed that I did not deserve my magic, that I was unworthy of it. Muggleborns were persecuted, hunted, and forced to register themselves for the crime of existence. So, I chose to fight in the face of tyranny. 

“I fought for this community. I bled for this community, even though that very blood made me somehow unworthy of it. I risked my life for this community. Augustus Codsworth did not fight for anything other than keeping the magical world divided. He abused the power given to him by this council, made a mockery of its laws, and condemned an innocent man to a life of imprisonment. He attempted to continue the very abuse I sacrificed my childhood to stop. 

“As members of the Wizengamot, you hold the responsibility to either allow for the same beliefs that destroyed families, ended lives, and nearly broke this community, to continue to fester, or you can choose to be part of a new era in the Wizarding world. History will remember which side Augustus Codsworth chose. The ruling you make today on whether he should be a free man, will decide how it remembers you.”

Hermione sat down, Draco reaching for her hands the moment she was seated. Her hands were shaking, and he began rubbing circles against the clammy skin. He had chosen to not speak publicly at the trial since he had already given his personal statement. When Hermione asked why, he simply said the Wizengamot didn’t need to hear a Pureblood talk about injustices, but promised to be there for her. 

The Wizengamot announced that they would recess for deliberation and their sentencing would be announced later that day. She watched as Aurors led Codsworth back to the Ministry jail cells. 

As they filed out of the courtroom, Hermione quickly found Harry. “I need to speak with Codsworth.”

He gaped at her. “You have to be joking.” He turned to Draco. “Tell me she’s joking.”

Draco shrugged. “While she is very witty, I don’t believe this is a joke.”

“Hermione, Robards is already on edge because of his investigation. He would have my absolute head.”

“It’s a good thing I know you keep your Invisibility Cloak in your office and that you’re the Chosen One.”

Harry stared at her for a moment before sighing deeply.

“Don’t worry, Potter. If you get fired from the DMLE, we can foot your salary. I’ve been looking for help and Granger won’t even hear about a House-Elf.”

Hermione affectionately nudged her husband who gave a dramatic oof before following Harry to his office. 

Soon, she was once again following Harry from the cover of the Invisibility Cloak. When they reached the jail cells, Harry offered to give the Auror on guard duty a break, which the man accepted readily, promising to be back in ten minutes. Once he was gone, Hermione tugged the cloak off herself. 

“If you need anything, I’m right here.”

Hermione nodded at Harry before slowly making her way to the only occupied cell. 

He was sitting on a dingy cot. His shackled hands were now free. 

“Hello, Codsworth.”

The man snapped his head up and glared at Hermione. “Of course you’re here. Using your little private connection to the DMLE, are you?”

“You should know, what with your long history of abusing connections. Though my offence is considerably less criminal I’d say, seeing as I’m on the outside of the cell.”

“Don't act like you have qualms about breaking laws, Ms. Granger.”

“You’re right. While I am fond of rules, there are almost no laws I’m unwilling to break for the right reason. That’s where we differ. You broke laws to oppress people. I break laws to free them.” 

“You can cry about oppression all you like, but the Wizarding world is barely picking up the pieces after the wars. It isn’t ready for radical changes. We have survived this long due to our customs, our traditions, our laws. Muggleborns don’t understand any of it.” 

“While the Wizarding world is different from the Muggle world, there are many similarities. There will always be those that can see the potential that change can bring and those that will always be blind to it. I won’t waste my breath trying to convince you that welcoming Muggleborns will strengthen this community. I can see you’ve made your decision.”

“Then why are you here, Ms. Granger?

“It’s Malfoy. Despite your best efforts, it’s still Malfoy. And I’m here because I wanted you to clearly see my face. Me. A Muggleborn and a woman, and the reason for your downfall. I once told you I was fond of promises, but I am not here to make a promise. This is a threat. If you ever come after my husband again, there is no spell, no ward, no wall that could protect you from me. But I feel like that will be a moot point soon.”

“You have no business even holding a wand. You should have taken your Order of Merlin and disappeared back into the shadows where your kind belongs. You’ll always be nothing but a filthy Mudblood.” He was pressed against the bars of the cell, spit flying as he snarled at her. 

Hermione glanced down at the time piece on her wrist. Her ten minutes were up. She looked back to Codsworth, whose face was mottled red with anger. “And you belong in Azkaban. I’m not sure how long you’ll be there though. While I don’t agree with it morally, the Kiss is still legal. If only you would have overturned that law instead of the one that could have saved you. You’re unmarried. You could have used The Gallows Marriage. Probably best you didn’t. I shudder for the woman who could have ever been tied to the likes of you.”

She peered over at Harry who was signalling for her to hurry. 

“This has been a lovely chat, Codsworth. I will leave this corridor now and forget about you. Enjoy Azkaban.”

She turned her back to the man as he thrashed against the bars. She quickly covered herself with Cloak and Harry walked by and apologised for Codsworth’s agitated state, before quickly walking away. 

When she arrived back at Harry’s office, she found Draco pacing. When he heard the door open, he blindly started reaching out for her until his hands caught the Cloak. He yanked it off before pulling her into a hug. 

“I know I watched you stomp on a Werewolf’s foot and blow a hole in a wall to get to me, but I did not enjoy that.”

“I’m fine,” she soothed, leaning back. “I just had a few things to clear up with Codsworth.”

“Yeah, it was bloody terrifying. Remind me to not get on her bad side.” Harry muttered. 

Draco smiled down at her, a playful glint in her eyes. “My wife is fucking ruthless.”

Hermione flushed under his gaze. 

“Oh… no. Don’t do that in my office, please.”

Draco rolled his eyes while still staring down at Hermione. “They are going to be deliberating for a while longer. Do you want to stay here until the verdict is released?”

Hermione shook her head. “No. I’d like to go home now. I don’t need to be here for it. Whatever it is, we’ll handle it together.”

He leaned forward, kissing her on the forehead before they entered the Floo. 

~~

Hermione shivered as Draco kissed down her neck, his fingers gently massaging the base of head. Between open-mouthed kisses, his tongue slid against her skin in languid licks. 

“You are so delicious.”

Hermione squirmed as he spoke against her collarbone, his exploration leading to her breasts. His mouth wrapped around her nipple, causing her to gasp sharply. Draco began sucking and lapping with abandon, his right hand trailing down her side. His left thumb slipped into the side of his mouth, the calloused skin brushing against the pebbled peak. He then brought his damp thumb to her other nipple, rubbing slow circles as he continued to suck. 

Hermione moaned at the sensation, her thighs pressing against each other. As she squirmed, Draco pulled back and gave her a devious grin. His lips were red from fiction and shiny. 

“Draco, please…” Hermione’s voice was breathless. 

He leaned forward, placing a gentle kiss against her mouth. “I’m going to devour you.”

She watched as he held her gaze, slowly crawling down her body. Her breath caught in her throat as he paused for a moment right above where she needed him the most. With one final smirk, he parted her folds and kissed deeply.

He really was devouring her.

Hermione moaned as his tongue circled her clit before pressing firmly against it. His hands dug into her hips as they lifted of their own accord, pinning her in place. 

Her head moved back and forth against the pillow as his tongue steadily pushed inside of her before curling up. Draco, always a quick learner, followed each gasp and sigh, seeking her release.

“Wait, wait, stop.”

He drew back, his cheeks flushed and chin wet. His hair stuck up unevenly, evidence of her fingers pulling at it. 

She swallowed hard, trying to get her thighs to stop trembling. “I want to try something.” 

“Anything.” 

His immediate response, raspy and intense, made heat bloom in her chest. 

He shifted back as she quickly moved, his brow furrowing as she laid him down on his back. Quickly, Hermione brought her knee over his face, straddling his head with her back turned to him. 

“Granger?” She felt him question from underneath her. His voice was filled with awe.

“Please tell me I can touch you.” He breathed against her, much closer than he had been a moment before. 

“Oh, god, please.” She keened before lowering herself onto his awaiting mouth. 

If she thought he had been ravenous before, she had been wrong. Draco sucked her clit hard, his tongue laving at it while he held the suction. Hermione lost her balance, and she caught herself against the bed. 

The fall brought her much closer to where his cock rested swollen against his stomach. A small damp spot glistened on his skin where precum had dripped. Hermione paused for a moment as Draco began rhythmically fucking her with his tongue. 

Shaking her head to focus, she leaned forward and licked the pooled liquid off him. His cock bobbed against, and she felt him hesitate. 

“If you suck me off right now, I don’t think I’ll last thirty seconds.” 

Hermione hissed as his pained voice blew air against her swollen clit. “Keep doing what you’re doing and I’ll cum with you.” 

He groaned as she began sliding her tongue against the smooth skin of his cock, starting at the base. Once she reached the end, she swirled her tongue around the tip, letting the sticky precum dissolve in her mouth. 

Draco was making muffled sounds against her, the vibration of his cries sizzling her skin. He fervently sucked and lapped, exploring every part of her before focusing on where she needed him most. 

She was close. She felt her legs begin to shake as she sucked around him, the feeling of his cock in her mouth spurring her on even more. Tears pricked her eyes as she took him even deeper. He bucked, the tip bumping the back of her throat for just a second. 

Suddenly he gave another hard suck on her clit, and she was exploding. He pushed his tongue into her over and over as she rode out every wave of pleasure, and she tried to remind herself to continue to suck as she moaned around him.

“Oh, fuck, oh fuck,” Draco whined as she continued to work once her orgasm was finished. She balanced on her knees and brought a hand to him, using it in tandem with her mouth. “For Salazar fucking sake, you’re sucking me off and your cunt is dripping on me and I… I…”

Hermione quickly swallowed as spurts of cum shot down her throat, the bitter flavour causing a slight shiver down her spine. She ignored it as she continued to lick him clean until he stopped thrusting into her mouth. 

Feeling him shift her backwards until she was nestled against his side, Hermione sighed. Their skin was sticky against each other and when he brought his mouth to hers, she could taste them both on her tongue. Once their hearts stopped beating frantically, he slid down the bed, resting his head against her stomach. Hermione stared at the stars above her while Draco traced her freckles with his fingertip.

“I used to stare at you in the Library,” she whispered into the dark room. She felt the finger stop against her for a moment. 

“I used to stare at you in the Library too.” The words rumbled against her side, his breath sending chills across her skin.

“Even when you were being vile.”

“I was most definitely vile.”

“But never in the Library. Why?”

“You want to delve into the mind of a twelve-year-old shit?”

“I want to know everything there is to know about you. All of it.”

She felt as he sucked in a breath. “I’m not sure I’ll ever get over you wanting me in any way. It’s… the most amazing feeling.”

She grinned at the conjured stars and began to run her fingers through his hair. “That’s good. Most people get rather exasperated with all my questions.”

“Never. Watching your mind work is the closest thing to magic I’ve felt since having my wand taken.”

She felt her cheeks flush. “Flattery won’t distract me from the question.”

“Fine, fine. There really isn’t much to say. I watched you because I was begrudgingly fascinated by you. You were exactly the opposite of what I had been raised to believe about Muggleborns. Here you came into the Wizarding world and surpassed me in all our lessons. It didn’t matter that I had been surrounded by magic from birth or that I had been raised with the best tutors money could buy. Your natural talent and brilliant mind bested me. And then I kept watching you because you were nice to look at.”

“Draco.”

“Oh, and I suppose you’ll say you watched me because of my award-winning charm?”

She bit her lip and didn’t say a word.

“I didn’t think so. You’ll just have to accept it, Granger. You’re beautiful and you snagged yourself a beautiful husband. It’s the burden you’ll have to bear for the rest of your life.”

“Is that what you want? The rest of our lives?” She meant for her questions to sound teasing but a hesitant sincerity rang through them. 

He nuzzled against the flesh of her stomach before kissing the skin gently. “I want forever. I want more than forever. I’m selfish. I want it all. I would spend all my days pursuing the knowledge of how to extend our lives so that I could have you for a moment longer. I would trade all the Galleons in my vault to have even a day more with you by my side, reading books and eating toast. I am yours in every way a person can be. It’s funny. I thought being wholly devoted to a single person was the worst thing you could do. But this wasn’t forced on me, it wasn’t taken. It’s my choice. I am giving my life to you. Whatever you choose to do with it, I’ll be grateful I was ever even once yours.”

Hermione felt the tears slip down her temples. She wiggled her way down the bed until her face was across from his, both curled on their sides. Her hands reached out to hold his face. “I love you. I love you. I love you.” She peppered his face with kisses which tasted salty, her tears wet on his skin. 

She did not know what would happen in a year, in five years, in the expanse of their entire lives. But she knew that for today at least, she was choosing him in all the ways a person could choose another.

She was choosing an after. 

Notes:

YAY! 29! We are so close!!

Again, thank you for all the amazing comments and support! It has all been unreal. I am hoping to release 30 next Sunday but it could be sooner!

Huge thanks to rompeprop and noxhunter, my beta babes!

This was written while my toddler was at a sleepover with her grandparents. If you know, you know. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 30

Notes:

Hit next chapter to read the epilogue when you finish this one!
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
Melbourne, Australia, 4:30 AM

Agatha Kelly sighed as she looked down at the small device in her hands.

She hated the thing. 

She would never have even owned one if her daughter hadn’t insisted. Maggie was adamant that she be able to reach Agatha at any given moment. 

You lock yourself out of your house a few times or forget where you parked your car and suddenly you have to be babysat by your daughter through a tiny device.

“I just want to make sure you’re safe, Mum.”

At seventy-one, Agatha had to admit her memory wasn’t what it used to be. She did her Sudoku, read her books (she preferred a romance, something with a man with long hair blowing in the wind on the cover), and she made sure to learn a new word each week to keep her mind sharp. 

Sometimes she would find herself searching for something in her home but after twenty minutes, she couldn’t tell you what she was looking for. She would sometimes find her glasses in the refrigerator and her milk in the cabinet, and although she would never admit it to Maggie, for one terrifying moment, she had looked for Charlie after waking up from a midday nap. 

That had been a particularly difficult day. 

Forty-five years of marriage was a long time to be with someone. A lifetime, really. They had grown up together. Having met as teenagers, they had married in a little church in front of all their friends and family. They had travelled the world together, seeing the elephants of the African savanna, eating homemade pasta in tiny villages in Italy, and explored the hustle and bustle of New York City in America.

And when they had tired of running from one adventure to another, they had purchased their small bungalow just a few minutes from the beach. 

Agatha loved her home. They had spent all their money buying it, young and in love, and couldn’t even afford furniture for the first year. It didn’t matter. Some of her favourite moments had been eating takeaway on their mattress on the floor, laughing at the telly and slow dancing in their empty sitting room. 

They had raised their children in that house. 

She had been so terrified when she had first fallen pregnant, worried she would be a terrible mother. Charlie hadn’t felt any of that fear. He had pulled her into the fiercest hug and had cried. When their first, Anthony, was born, Charlie cried again. Samantha followed not even two years later, and then Margret, the baby, whom they called Maggie. The daughter that refused to pick up her damn cell phone.

Her oldest two had moved to different parts of the world so Maggie took it upon herself to make sure Agatha was cared for. It was beautiful and comforting, if not a bit suffocating. Agatha was a grown woman and seemed to revert to a child a little more with every year in age. Did all older people feel like that?

Agatha threw the stupid phone back in her purse. The thing was useless if it couldn’t actually reach anyone. 

She couldn’t believe she had found herself in this situation, again. 

She had woken up in the middle of the night from a dream about being in hospital. It was awful. The beeps, the smell of harsh antiseptics that burned her nose, the sombre look on the faces of nurses that were young enough to be her grandchildren as they explained that maybe Charlie could hear her but couldn’t respond. 

“It’s the medication,” they had explained. The ones that kept him calm and comfortable with a breathing tube down his throat. And they had kept him calm and comfortable from what Agatha could tell, until he calmly and comfortably stopped breathing on his own and his heart gave out. 

When she had woken up from her dream, she needed out. The tiny bungalow suddenly felt empty in a way it only did in the middle of the night when she could feel how big the bed was for just one person. 

So, she had left. 

Charlie has always loved midnight beach strolls. No matter the weather, he insisted fresh sea air was the best remedy for any ailment. So, Agatha walked on the beach frequently, sometimes only for ten minutes, sometimes for an hour until the sun rose. 

Maggie hated it. She was always telling Agatha that she wouldn’t forgive her if she got a call from the coppers saying her mother had fallen into a sandy hole on the beach or had drowned.

Agatha had refused to stop her midnight walks but had promised to always take her cell phone, just in case. 

This had become a ‘just in case’ moment.

Agatha could have sworn she had put her keys in her purse the previous afternoon after her book club’s lunch at Gwen’s house. She had been so convinced they were there that she had locked her side door before heading out without even checking. 

Her keys were probably in the damn refrigerator.

And that’s how Agatha found herself sitting on a bench next to a lamplight, in the way-too-early morning, with a phone that just kept going to voicemail. Maggie would kick herself for not picking up, which made Agatha feel terrible, but she knew her daughter would have been even angrier to find out her elderly mother had just sat on a bench, waiting for the sun to rise so she could go to her neighbours’s house who had an extra key. 

Agatha sighed loudly into the chilly night air. Of course, this had to have happened when it was bloody freezing out.

“Are you alright?”

Agatha jumped and let out a loud curse.

A man with shockingly blonde hair stepped around the bench. 

Agatha’s heart began to beat wildly. Maggie had warned her about mental people who preyed on little old women in the night. Agatha had brushed it off but now she wished she hadn’t. Even if the young man looked too smartly dressed to be a killer. 

“I’m fine,” Agatha declared, eyeing him wearily. 

“Are you sure? It’s cold and very dark.”

“I’m not the least bit chilly and I start my days very early.” It would have been convincing if her teeth hadn’t chattered. 

The young man looked at her knowingly before removing the scarf he had wrapped around his neck. “I’d feel better if you used this.” 

Agatha checked her watch, seeing it was half past four in the morning. Maggie wouldn’t be up for her morning jog for at least another hour. 

“If you insist.” Agatha sighed, reaching for the luxurious material. When she wrapped it around her neck, it smelled spicy and expensive. 

“Do you mind if I sit for a moment?” the young man inquired. 

“My son-in-law is in law enforcement.”

He wasn’t. Bill owned a small florist shop but the man didn’t need to know that.

“Some of my best mates are in law-enforcement and they made me promise if I ever was arrested, they would get to do the honours. I swear to be a gentleman.”

Agatha eyed him again, taking in his half grin and silver eyes before nodding her head. Maggie would be mad if she ever found out Agatha hadn’t run away immediately, but something in her gut told Agatha that the young man was safe. 

“If you kill me, I’ll haunt you until you die,” Agatha said as he sat down. The young man stared at her before bursting into laughter. 

“I’m serious. Ghosts are real. And I’ll really haunt you.”

“No, no, don’t worry, I believe you. I’ve actually met a fair few ghosts.” The odd man smiled before reaching a hand out. “I’m Draco, by the way.”

Agatha gripped his hand with all her strength, trying to convey she wasn’t some frail old woman. “Agatha. Nice to meet you.”

“That’s a very lovely name. Now tell me, Agatha, what are you doing out here in the middle of the night?”

“I could ask you the very same thing, young man. You out partying until the early hours of the morning?”

He nodded his head. “That’s a fair question. I was heading out, hoping to get breakfast for my wife before she wakes up. There is a bakery down the street. Chocolate croissants are my wife’s favourite. The bakery opens at five, so I’m stuck waiting until it does. I was over eager and couldn’t sleep and I didn’t want to wake her up.”

“That’s an awfully nice thing to do. What’s the occasion?”

He smiled proudly. “It’s our five-year anniversary. We're actually renewing our vows in a few weeks.”

Agatha pulled her brows high. “Wow, that’s very exciting. You seem so young.”

“Not too young. I turned twenty-nine earlier this month. But I must admit, I can’t believe five years have passed already. It’s a big year for us.”

Twenty-nine. The man was positively a baby. Agatha wondered for a moment what being twenty-nine again would feel like.

“Your wife won’t be concerned if she wakes up and you’re suddenly gone?”

He gave her an impish grin. “I think she secretly likes it. I’m a bit of a reformed bad boy.”

“I’d peg you more for a ballroom dancer than a bad boy.” 

He scoffed, a hand pressing to his chest. “I will have you know that while being an impeccable dancer, I was also a beguiling rebel.”

“Whatever you say, James Dean. So, what brings you to Australia? Do you live here?”

“My in-laws live here. We’re from the UK. We visit yearly, and if we can, stay for a few weeks. This year just happened to align with our anniversary. They have a house just down the road.”

Agatha’s ears perked. “What are their names? I know almost everyone in the neighbourhood.”

“Wendell and Monica Wilkins. They own a dentistry practice about fifteen minutes away.”

“Of course I know them! I’ve been a faithful patient of Dr. Monica for the last ten years. Oh, your wife must be Hermione!”

“That’s her.”

Agatha scooted closer to the young man on the bench. “You know, it was such a surprise to find out that they had a daughter. I hadn’t heard a peep for years and then one day they mentioned her and haven’t stopped since. I hear she’s in local government back in England. I can’t promise to know all the details, but they seemed very proud.”

“That she is. She sits on a major council. Quite young for it too. Helped stop a very bad man and got him imprisoned for a long time. Saved my life. More than once if you can believe it. She’s kind of a celebrity around our part of the world.”

Agatha’s hearing wasn’t what it used to be either. She wanted to ask him to clarify but he just kept going.

“She even helped create this amazing hospital wing dedicated to Lycan– uh, special vee-ruses.”

And people liked to poke fun at Aussie accents. Agatha smiled at the obvious pride in the man’s voice, even if he couldn’t pronounce ‘viruses’ to save his life. “You sound very proud.”

He beamed. “I am very proud. Fierce enough to ride a dragon, that one. She’s an amazing woman who accomplishes anything she puts her mind to. It's breathtaking to witness, really. You could call it magic. I’m in disbelief most days that she proposed to me.”

“Well, that’s what I like to hear: a strong and independent woman. What do you do?”

“Currently, nothing. I help with some charities that are important to me and take care of our home and our fat cat.” 

Agatha peered down at the man’s expensive leather shoes before raising a brow. They had an almost iridescent shimmer in the glow of the lamplight. They didn’t look like any leather she had ever seen before. Probably French. 

“All right, stop looking so smug. Yes, I have a sizable inheritance, so I do what I love best, which is making sure my wife is happy and supported so she can focus on changing the world. And fund our fat cat’s lifestyle, of course. He’s a tough negotiator.”

“That sounds very important. You tried to make it seem like you don’t do anything at all.”

“Yes, well, my Mind Healer tells me that I need to stop being so self-deprecating.”

Agatha quirked a brow at “Mind Healer.” Young kids and their jargon, she supposed, but still, she was impressed. Mental health care had always made sense to her but even Charlie had been weary of it. Most men she knew found it to be a wishy-washy science, but she had found immense relief from her weekly sessions with her grief counsellor in the dark months after Charlie had passed.

“Most men wouldn’t admit to being in therapy,” Agatha pointed out. 

“A shame. Most men could probably benefit from it.”

“That’s true. I know I did. My husband died five years ago. Cancer. It helped me a lot. Was the only way I’d leave the house for a while.” 

She felt a gentle hand rest on her forearm as she stared straight ahead down the dark street. Without turning, she patted his hand with her own. 

“I’m sorry about your loss. I’ve always likened life without my wife to having my soul sucked right out. I couldn’t imagine.”

“Thank you. We had a long life together. Had more years with each other than many get. But it doesn’t make it easier.”

They sat in silence for a few minutes. 

“Do you want to know why I go to therapy?”

Agatha turned her head at his question, a wry grin on her face. “I’m a widowed old woman, of course I want to know! I’m only living for gossip.”

He chuckled. “And I couldn’t imagine taking away someone’s reason for living. I go to therapy because when I got married, I had my fair share of problems. I drank too much, liked to get into fights–”

“And you have that self-deprecating thing,” Agatha interjected. 

“Exactly. I got married and suddenly they weren’t only my problems, they were my wife’s problems too. Only, she hadn’t had any part in creating them. It took me longer than it should have, but I realised I couldn’t fault her for trying to fix my problems when I was obviously struggling in front of her. I would have done the same if the roles had been reversed. So, I decided that the only way I could lift some of the burden off her shoulders was to get myself in order.”

“So, you did it for her,” Agatha provided. 

“It started that way. But then it quickly became for me too. We had survived so much together and come out the other side and I had been given this beautiful life. I wanted to actually enjoy it. Dealing with all that grief and anger on your own can be…”

“Overwhelming,” she finished. 

Agatha understood. She had felt like the world was swallowing her whole when Charlie had died. Shelly, a lovely woman in her forties, had helped her navigate her way out of that pit. 

He agreed with a nod of his head.

They sat in silence for a few minutes longer before she wiped away a tear. “Enough with the sadness. When are you going to give the good dentists some grandchildren?”

His cheeks immediately turned pink. Agatha loved asking that question. She knew young people hated it, but as the neighbourhood old woman, it was her duty to ask when babies were expected. She had suffered through the same when she had been young. She had earned it.

“You sound like my mother.” Draco sighed with a smile. “She has been especially persistent these past few months.”

“Dr. Monica has mentioned it a few times herself. Are you close with your mother?”

He appeared a tad uncomfortable for the first time in the conversation and she wondered if she had crossed an even worse boundary than with the talk of babies. 

“I grew up close to her, but we drifted apart when I got older. When I married, she was…  hesitant. She even tried to set me up with an eligible bachelorette from our own social circle. Like I’d ever divorce my beautiful wife to marry someone so obsessed with the mating habits of Abraxans! I could forgive her for her transgressions against me, but never against Hermione.”

“You sound like a very good partner. Never let anyone bully your spouse. Other than you, now and again of course. It keeps you young. And I’m sorry, is that some type of animal?”

“Never mind that. Anyways, she is quick to put me in my place. As her previous childhood bully, she has earned the right to constantly put me in my place.”

“Your love story spans across an entire timeline! Those are the best kind. Star-crossed lovers and everything. It fits your name. Your mother was setting you up for a great story. But that can come with a heavy burden. I assume you and your mother reconnected if she is asking about grandchildren now?”

“We did. She sent a handwritten letter addressed to both my wife and me, asking us to have tea. I almost said no, but Hermione has always been selfless and insisted we go. My mother apologised to us both right then and there. It's been rocky at times, but we have been slowly finding our way back to each other.”

“And now she wants grandchildren.”   

Draco, looking rather abashed, ran a hand through his hair. “And now she wants grandchildren.”

“Do you not want kids? If that’s the case, don’t let anyone bully you into it.” Agatha loved her children immensely but was first to share that they weren’t for the faint of heart.

He shook his head. “I’ve heard the same sentiments from my friend, Harry. He and his wife have three children already, which I cannot even fathom. I do want them eventually, but I wanted Hermione to focus on her career goals first. She has spent most of life worrying about the well-being of others. I wanted her to have the time to explore what she wanted in life and whether that involved a child. And I wanted to focus on myself for a little while as well.” He glanced at her. “Can you keep a secret?”

Agatha shrugged. “Who am I going to tell?”

“Perhaps another random man you meet on a bench?”

“Touché. But I can keep a secret. I probably have kept a few longer than you’ve been alive.”

He leaned forward and spoke softly. “We decided to start trying after this trip, but it’s a secret. She’s the one that brought it up. I mentioned once that I wanted kids someday, but never wanted her to feel pressured. Then one evening, we were reading and she just sat down and announced that she wanted us to have a baby after our trip here. If that’s what I wanted, of course. I couldn’t respond for at least two minutes straight. And then I cried. Just started sniffling right then and there. I am a bit of a crier around her. Imagine what I’ll do when she’s pregnant. Or when the baby actually arrives.”

Agatha clapped her hands, the sound muffled by her gloves. “Now that’s very exciting! And tears of joy is the best reaction you could have given. Trust me, I’d know.”

He grinned at her before his face settled into something softer. “Now that we have shared our life stories, are you going to tell me why you’re really out here?”

She sighed, suddenly exasperated. “Fine. It’s not even a good story. I went for a walk. I just needed some fresh air. Unfortunately, I forgot my keys and now I’m locked out. I called my daughter on the cell phone she insists I carry, and she didn’t pick up. So now I’m waiting until it’s an appropriate time to wake my neighbours up to get my spare key from them.”

“See, that wasn’t so difficult.”

“When you’re my age and lose your glasses, only to find them on your head thirty minutes later, you’ll see just how difficult that was to share.”

“That’ll never be a problem for me because I won’t ever wear glasses. With these eyes? No, I’m much too vain for that.” He laughed before standing up. “Where’s your house?”

Agatha used her thumb to motion to the bungalow behind them. 

“Mind if I try the door? Maybe it’s just stuck. You can wait here.”

“I mean, sure, go ahead, but it’s locked.”

He quickly made his way to her front stoop as Agatha clapped her hands again to bring some warmth back into them. Arthritis made her knuckles especially stiff in the colder months. 

“There you go, it’s open.” Agatha gaped at the young man as he returned. He handed her the elusive keys that had created this entire mess. “Don’t mind my snooping, but they were half sticking out of a pair of shoes right inside the door. Don’t worry about them, I made sure you won’t lose them so easily next time.”

“But– I mean, I tried it three times!”

“It wasn’t locked, just a bit stuck. You got lucky; it just needed a little charming. I'm sure your daughter will be relieved you’re alright when she calls you back. Nasty things, cell phones, but also rather convenient. Much faster than writing a letter.”

“I should think so.”

He looked down to his wrist. “The bakery should be opening soon, so I’ll be on my way. Thank you for keeping me company, Agatha. It was lovely.”

She felt her cheeks warm as he helped her rise off the bench, her knees protesting as she went. He patiently accompanied her to her front door which was, miraculously, unlocked. 

Once she stepped over the threshold, she turned to face him. “Thank you for your help, Draco. I can see why your in-laws talk so fondly about you. You’re a good man. Stop off at White’s Florals this afternoon if you can step away. Tell Bill that Agatha sent you. He’s my son-in-law. He’ll make sure you get a beautiful bouquet for your wife, on the house.”

“I thought you said your son-in-law was in law enforcement?”

“And I thought you were a serial killer. Have a lovely anniversary, Draco. I’m sure Hermione realises what a catch you are. Hold on to it, it’s a beautiful gift.”  She waved and began to shut the door when a feminine voice stopped her.

“Draco?”

Wrapped in a beautiful red peacoat, a young woman with a riot of curls softly walked up the pavement. As she walked closer, Agatha could spot the resemblance in the shape of her mouth and the cut of her cheekbones. 

“You must be Hermione! I’ve heard a lot about you today.”

The woman tilted her head, her brow furrowing. 

Agatha quickly hobbled towards where the young couple stood, her knees still protesting in the cold weather. “I’m Agatha Kelly. I’m a patient at your parents' dentistry. And I’ve also gotten acquainted with your reformed bad boy, weepy husband.”

“Oh, god.”

Draco looked affronted. “I beg your pardon; I was a perfect gentleman. I gave Agatha no reason to haunt me.”

“To haunt you?”

“I’ll explain later. Sorry I was gone, Granger. I wanted to surprise you with breakfast, but then I happened upon lovely Agatha here.”

Agatha nodded. “He helped me get back into my house after I was locked out. Somehow, he was able to unlock the door.”

“How lucky,” the young woman muttered, eyeing her husband.  

“It was indeed luck. Granger, you would love Agatha. Perhaps she could come for dinner tomorrow night?” 

His wife seemed momentarily surprised before smiling and nodding her head.

“Oh, I couldn’t impose.” Agatha insisted. 

The curly-haired woman stepped close. “It wouldn’t be an imposition at all. Draco rarely gives such raving reviews, so I admit I’m curious. How about five-thirty?”

“I’m old but not that old, young lady. How about six-thirty?”

“She’s funny. Isn’t she funny, Granger? Six-thirty is perfect. We’d love to have you. And you’ll love Granger, Agatha. She’s got a wicked sense of humour. Should’ve seen what she did to our old schoolmate, Marietta Edgecomb.”

Agatha pretended to consider her schedule before agreeing to the invitation as Hermione scoffed a “stop!” and gave her husband another nudge on the ribs. She liked these two. 

“Perfect. I'll be here at six-fifteen to walk you over. Wouldn’t want you to be locked out and stranded on a bench.” Draco grinned.

Agatha waved her hand at the man with a look of disapproval but was secretly pleased. She liked his company, even if he was very strange. 

They said their goodbyes and Agatha once more turned to close the door and as she did, she heard Hermione muttering, “So, this is what you typically did during your late-night outings?”

She saw the young man lean over and say, “It would have saved us considerable heartache if I had just been helping sweet women back into their locked homes,” and kiss his wife on the forehead before entwining their hands together and walking off in the direction of the bakery. It was sweet to watch. She shut the door and locked it snug.

Back in her familiar bungalow, Agatha sat down in her well-loved armchair in the sitting room, and turned on a lamp. Charlie had sat in that same chair every evening for as long as she could remember. Sometimes she could swear the old corduroy material still smelled like him, even all these years later. No matter how much her memory slipped, she could always recall that scent. It smelled like home.

Exhausted from her early morning escapade, Agatha Kelly fell asleep in the house she loved, thinking about the wonderful life she had shared with her husband. 

Oh, to be twenty-nine again, beside the person you picked to be your forever, with your entire life ahead of you. 

What an adventure it would be for those two.

Notes:

30! We hit 30! That's so wild!!

Thank you to everyone who followed along and supported the fic! It has been amazing. I had no idea my first fic would have so much support and I am so thankful for you all!

A MASSIVE thanks to rompeprop and noxhunter for being the best betas and support group. Ya'll are so amazing <3

Please note the chapter count and the small addition!

This was written on my phone, fueled by DPZ and a dream. Proceed with caution.

I don't own shit <3
Chapter 31: The Wedding

Notes:

lol edit made. I accidentally wrote Lavender instead of Parvati. Sorry to anyone who downloaded it 😂
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
The Wedding

Hermione touched the material of the gown she was wearing. The ivory silk felt slippery beneath her fingers. 

It was a simple but impeccably constructed garment. Every stitch was carefully sewn to hug her body precisely, before flowing out at the waist. 

Staring into the mirror, she smoothed down the magically charmed fabric. The glass reflected her wide eyes, her flushed cheeks, and the cascade of curls that fell around her shoulders.

It had been Draco’s one request. 

“I love your hair,” he had whispered late one night, a strand wrapped around his finger, “you never seem more like ‘Granger’ to me than when your hair is like a halo around your head, catching the light. It’s ethereal.” 

Hermione couldn’t have imagined saying no to that. 

If someone had told Hermione when she was fifteen that she would be marrying Draco Malfoy, prat-extraordinaire, in the gardens of his ancestral home, she would have laughed and laughed. 

A knock came from the door. 

“Hermione?”

Ginny opened the door. The witch looked splendid in a sage green gown that flowed around her.

“You look beautiful,” she beamed.  

Hermione felt beautiful, she honestly did, but she also felt so nervous. 

“Is it ridiculous that my heart is beating a mile a minute?” 

Ginny laughed. “Not at all. I was absolutely a wreck before my wedding. Had to have a nip of firewhisky to calm myself down.”

“But I’ve already been married for five years.”

“Yes, but that was a very different situation. You’re getting your real wedding for the very first time now. You’re allowed to be nervous. But I do have a flask if you need it.”

Hermione laughed as Ginny began reaching for it in her magically hidden pocket. “No thank you. I don’t need to be tipsy down the aisle.”

Ginny shrugged, bringing the flask to her lips before safely returning it to its hiding place. 

“It looks spectacular out there. A lot can be said about Narcissa Malfoy, but nobody can fault her for her taste in floral arrangements and topiary. There’s even a unicorn and her foal shrub!”

Hermione had suggested the field outside of their cottage for the vow renewal, but Draco had vetoed the idea. “This is our place, just the two of us. I will repeat my vows here every morning if you ask, but only for you.” 

Narcissa had offered the beautiful gardens for a summer wedding, and they had accepted. 

Draco had been especially hesitant at first, but Hermione had made her peace with what had occurred at the Manor, especially after the renovations. The ghosts of the past no longer haunted her as they once had. The scars would always linger, but the location itself held no power over her. 

“The Daily Prophet tried to show up. Ron had to turn them away. Figured you didn’t want them here,” said Ginny, pulling Hermione from her thoughts.

“He was right. We already did an interview with the Prophet, but they keep asking for more.”

The redhead waggled her brows. “Makes sense. You’re the youngest member on the Wizengamot and you’ve passed monumental legislation for the Department of Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. I’ve even heard whispers of you making a great candidate for Minister of Magic in the future.” 

Hermione sniffed. “That’s just talk.”

“You’ve made quite the name for yourself outside of the war. And with Draco, reformed bad boy turned philanthropist, by your side, people want a sneak peek into your world. Especially on your wedding day.”

“This day isn’t about any of that. It’s about me and Draco.”

Harry knocked on the door. “I think it’s about time to head down.” When his eyes found Hermione, they lit up. 

“Wow, you look amazing, Hermione.” 

She felt herself blush at his boyish smile and crooked glasses.

“She always does.” Ginny grinned, grabbing Harry by the arm. “We better go, Harry. It’ll start any minute and sitting in the front row, we can’t be late.” 

They both gave her a wave before disappearing to find their seats, leaving Hermione to take a few calming breaths before the ceremony began. 

~~

The sun was high in the sky. It was a particularly warm day in June but strong magical charms older than Hermione could fathom kept the gardens a comfortable ambient temperature. 

Any nerves were ridiculous. 

She wanted to be there. She wanted it more than anything. Draco had asked her once if the idea of publicly declaring him as hers, in front of all their family and friends, made her nervous. She had been honest when she told him she was proud to claim him in front of anyone willing to listen. 

She had claimed him when she had proposed to save his life, and once again in the small office of Azkaban when she had taken the Unbreakable Vow, as well as in front of the Wizengamot when he had sat by her side at Codsworth’s trial. 

And she had silently claimed the night she received the letter from Harry that Codsworth had been sentenced to the Kiss. As she had read the words on the parchment, she vowed to protect Draco and to love him for all the moments that had been stolen from them. They hadn’t attended Codsworth Kiss even though they were invited. They didn’t need to.

And now was the time for her to claim him once more. 

Music floated softly through the warm air that smelled like white florals, courtesy of the beautiful arrangements that were fastened to a large archway. Hermione took a deep breath as she began down the pathway between rows of chairs. Faces of family and friends greeted her and she attempted to smile back, her nerves making it difficult. After a few steps she finally allowed herself to focus on the man waiting at the end. 

Hermione felt a deep exhale leave her body slowly as she took him in. Donned in beautiful formal dress robes, Draco looked every bit the aristocratic heir. He stood tall, his blonde hair practically glowing under the sunlight. As Hermione walked down the aisle, getting closer and closer, she realised his chin was wobbling as he bit his lower lip. 

“I love you.” she mouthed at him, cursing the careful steps Pansy had practised with her earlier that day. 

His face broke for a moment before he regained composure, and he grinned in return. Fingers reached out towards her, his hand still down by his side, motioning for her to hurry. She silently laughed and took the last few steps quicker than planned. She was sure she would hear about it from Pansy later. 

“Hi,” she breathed, her hands immediately reaching for him. He felt warm and strong. 

His hands gripped hers tightly and promised to not let go. “Hi.”

“Thank you for joining us today, to celebrate Hermione and Draco.” Theo’s loud voice boomed from behind them. “Today we rejoice in their love by witnessing this renewal of vows. I was lucky enough to have a front row seat for the blooming relationship between these two. I can confidently say that their love has stood against many trials and tribulations. I am honoured to be part of this beautiful day; a sentiment I know we all share. Without further ado, let us begin the ceremony. 

“Hermione, please repeat after me. 

“You are Blood of my Blood, and Bone of my Bone.

I give you my Body, that we Two might be One. 

I give you my Spirit, 'til our Life shall be Done. 

You cannot possess me for I belong to myself.

But while we both wish it; I give you that which is mine to give.

You cannot command me, for I am a free person.

But I shall serve you in those ways you require,

and the honeycomb will taste sweeter coming from my hand.”

The first time Hermione had recited those vows, they had felt like a weight on her chest, each word increasing the pressure, and she had barely let herself consider what she was repeating. This time however, she savoured the vows. With each phrase, she felt a steadfast chain burst from her chest, directly linking her heart to his. It was unshakable. She was his and he was hers. 

Tears had begun to slide from the corners of Draco’s eyes as she spoke her vows, his hands trembling beneath hers. She squeezed him even harder, conveying her love with the touch. 

Finally, it was Draco’s turn. Much like the first time they had done this, when it was time for him to speak, he didn’t waiver. Each word rang out strong and sure. 

Hermione felt her own tears slide down her cheeks as he finished. 

Theo grinned in front of them. “Now Draco has a special message for Hermione.”

Hermione frowned. They hadn’t discussed saying anything past their vows. Draco just squeezed her hand at her confusion.

“Hermione. To stand in front of all our loved ones and pledge myself to you is one of the greatest gifts this life has given me. This world has not always been kind to us and Salazar knows we haven’t always been kind to each other. Still, we were able to find our way to this pinnacle moment. Some would say it was destiny, others might say it is the path of two souls that are intertwined with each other. While I do believe our love will go down in the stars, it was not star-crossed fate that led us here. It was a choice. 

“You chose to save me. You are an innately caring being and are so brave. You often choose the uneasy paths in life to do what you think is right. Your unending goodness and your selflessness push me to want to be a better person, even though you are gracious enough to never demand it.

“My commitment is also a choice. Even though the love I feel is undeniable, my devotion to you is a decision. I choose you, Hermione. I choose you to be my partner. I choose you to be my reading companion. I choose to wake up each morning to celebrate you and to fall asleep each night to dream with you. And I vow to choose you every day for the rest of our lives. You are by far the best choice I have ever made. You are my after.”

Hermione couldn’t stop the tears that streamed down her face as his voice broke on the last word. 

Hermione threw her arms around his neck, pulling him down for a kiss that set her on fire. She ignored the cheers and whistles that echoed around them. 

~~

They had fifteen minutes. Maybe even only ten. 

Stuffed in a small toilet that Draco fabricated out of the wall right off from the kitchen, Hermione was pushed against the back of the door, her leg over his shoulder. Her husband was hidden under the fullness of her gown, face buried between her legs. His firm grip on her thigh was the only thing stopping her from toppling over. 

“Draco…” she moaned, desperately trying to grasp on to the door behind her. He was sucking her clit now, the pressure causing her legs to quake. “Draco, we have… oh, god… we have to hurry.” Each word felt near impossible to get out as he lapped at her. 

“It’s our party, Granger. They can wait while I ravage the most beautiful bride that’s ever existed,” he spoke against her, the vibrations causing her to squirm.

“My parents could be looking for me.”

“That’s if Arthur has let them wander away from him, which I highly doubt. Also, please don’t mention your parents while I’m on my knees before you.”

“Pansy will come searching for us and you know it. She refuses to have the wedding she meticulously planned upended, even by the bride and groom.” Hermione continued as he began pushing a long finger inside. 

“Last time I saw Pansy, she was staring at Longbottom like she had never seen him before. She’s properly distracted. Now, be very honest with me, do you want me to stop?”

Hermione bit her lip as he stopped his delicate workings. “No,” she finally conceded.

“Thank fucking goodness,” he growled before setting her down on her legs that felt anything but secure. Carefully manoeuvring her in the cramped space, he positioned her in front of the porcelain washbasin. 

“Hold on, Granger.” was the only warning she received before she felt her skirts being lifted to her hips and then he was plunging into her. 

They groaned in unison, his movements pausing for a moment as they adjusted to the sensation. It was always so good. 

Soon he began moving, his earlier attention providing the perfect slip. Hermione gripped the washbasin, her bare skin pressed against the cold porcelain. She could feel the chill against her nipples through the silk bodice of her gown. 

“Look up,” Draco commanded from behind. 

“What?” she mumbled, unable to focus on what he was saying as he pumped in and out of her. 

“I want you to look up at the mirror,” he repeated as he helped her up while still maintaining an arch in her back to allow him into her body. 

“Look at us,” he groaned softly into her ear. 

Hermione saw their reflection in the mirror. Both of their cheeks were flushed pink. Pink lipstick was smeared against Draco’s mouth and neck from their fervent kisses as he had led her through the winding halls of the Manor. Draco’s mouth was now hanging open as he watched her take his deep thrusts. 

“Oh, fuck, you just got so wet,” he breathed. “Oh, gods, I’m fucking my wife right now.”

Hermione laughed but it came out more of a sigh. “You’ve been fucking your wife for five years.”

“Oh, gods, you’ve been my wife for five years. That’s so fucking hot,” he moaned before picking up speed. He was now gripping her hips tightly, pulling her against him with even more force. Hermione felt as that familiar cord began to tighten. 

Balancing her weight on one arm, she moved her hand behind her, watching their reflection as Draco sucked her two fingers greedily before she slipped them between her legs and began rubbing herself. She was so close. 

Sensing the end was near, Draco moved her hair to the side, revealing her neck, and began sucking the delicate skin. It would leave a mark that would need to be charmed but the added sensation tightened that cord even further. 

A few more thrusts and she was coming, watching herself in the reflection the entire time. Draco stared back at her and with a loud whimper which he muffled into the skin of her neck, came right after her. 

As his movements slowed down, Hermione felt her weight sag against the porcelain. She momentarily thanked her past self for applying charms to keep her eye-makeup from smearing or else she was certain she would have trails of mascara running down her face. 

Draco leaned against her body for a moment, catching his breath before he stood. Adjusting her skirts back down, the charmed fabric laying crisp once more, he pulled his wand out to cast a cleansing charm. 

“No,” Hermione whispered, stopping the familiar wand movements. 

Draco raised his eyebrows at her.

“I want you to think of yourself still inside of me for the rest of the night.”

His jaw slackened and his pupils dilated impossibly larger before he was pulling her into a searing kiss, bruising her lips. “You’re going to be the death of me,” he said against her mouth.

“Don’t be ridiculous,” she mumbled, “I won’t let you die until we have lived a long life together, old in our bed. A life sentence, if you will.”

“I gladly accept that sentence.” 

He helped her straighten her hair and clothes before checking over his own robes. 

“What do we say if someone asks where we were?” she questioned as they left the toilet. 

“We were consummating the marriage?”

“Draco!”

“Fine, we can tell them you were reading me the latest edition of Hogwarts: A History. ”

“Ha ha.” 

He grinned before pulling her back to him, his arms wrapping around her. “Tell them whatever you want to, Mrs. Malfoy. I will support you through anything.”

Hermione smiled at her husband, who still had pink lipstick on the lapel of his robes before taking his hand and returning to their own celebration. 

~~

As fireworks burst in the sky, Hermione felt blissfully happy. She could hear Ron’s boisterous laugh as he dipped Parvati low on the dance floor. Harry was chasing after James and Albus who had stolen large slices of cake while Ginny cheered her sons on, a sleeping Lily tucked in her arms. 

Her parents swirled on the dance floor, snuggling close and looking decidedly more comfortable in the magical world after some libations, and Narcissa was chatting quietly with Andromeda while Teddy enjoyed the fireworks display, his hair changing colours with each new explosion of light. He had been excitedly telling anyone who would listen that he would be attending Hogwarts in a years’ time. “Draco says he’ll buy me any broom I want as long as I’m not a Gryffindor. He says it’s a secret though so don’t tell!”

Pansy was whispering into a very pink-cheeked Neville’s ear while Theo eagerly discussed the efficacy of Nargles with Luna. Blaise and Ben sipped on glasses of firewhisky, holding hands in silence. 

Friends and family milled about, tipsy on champagne and merriment as fireflies illuminated the dark corners of the expansive garden. 

Draco’s arms tightened from behind her, his lips pressed into her hair as they viewed the world around them.

This was it. 

There was no going back.

They had come so far and still had a lifetime to go. 

They had an after.

Notes:

Here's a fluffy epilogue! It was a last minute edition so as always, proceed with caution!

This was written while feeling a tad sappy about this entire fic and experience. What a wild ride!!!

Love ya'll!