In These Silent Days
HeyJude19

The unfamiliar eagle owl arrives about an hour before the Ministry owl. She’s expecting a barn owl, not this first strange messenger. 

Tearing open the envelope, Hermione finds a concise, if overly formal, apology letter from Draco Malfoy. She blinks down at the neat handwriting, confused and distracted. 

Had this message arrived any other morning it would have consumed her entire day. As it happens, Hermione can only spare surface level intrigue. It’s a letter from a man she hasn’t seen in years—one she’s had no cause to interact with for any reason. She hasn’t the faintest clue about his life or whereabouts and cannot say that before this very moment she cared to know at all. 

Yet he apparently felt compelled to detail all the ways he’s wronged her in the past (as if she didn’t already know) and express remorse for such despicable behavior.

On today of all days. 

The timing makes more sense when the second letter arrives. 

The Ministry owl also involves Malfoy, though in an entirely different manner. It carries the news of her Ministry-mandated marriage match: one Draco Malfoy.

 

Hermione sees the signs long before everyone else.

A new Ministerial candidate (pureblood, of course) beating the unification drum. Speeches and op-eds about “rebuilding wizarding society” and “restoring values important to a strong, magical race.”

Not in the He-Who-Must-Still-Not-Be-Named way, no. That particular wizard sought to exclude groups of magical folk. What their world needed now was a way to bring everyone—purebloods, half-bloods, Muggleborns—together as one, harmonious entity.

With the Kingsley Shacklebolt era of reconstruction coming to an end, Minister Ellard Lance’s regime spouted promises of building upon this foundation. Now that the healing had occurred, they could take stock of improvements to be made, gaps to fill. 

Take for instance, the dwindling wizarding population. What could be done? After heavy casualties in a war, Muggleborns choosing career paths and lives in the Muggle world at an alarming rate, and none of the remaining young people seeming in a rush to start families, the Ministry is quite at a loss. 

Hermione, for her part, has plenty of suggestions. Why not institute a pre-Hogwarts learning program for children? How about a cultural initiative to introduce Muggleborn children to the wizarding world at an earlier age? Muggle parent outreach program? Tax incentives for new parents of any blood status? Squib career advancement program?

Ah, but Hermione works in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures. She possesses neither the “expertise” nor the “qualifications” to propose any such measures. 

Staying in her designated lane, Hermione next tries creature-specific proposed legislation. Making the magical world a more equitable place for all would make it stronger in the long-run, she implores. How about anti-discriminatory laws for werewolves seeking employment? House-elf freedom? Giving goblins the right to carry wands?

That first suggestion barely passes after an insulting amount of appeals, the second one is dismissed by her wide-eyed superiors, and the third one gets her laughed out of a department-wide meeting. 

Hermione senses this new Lance-led Ministry has something overreaching and sinister up their robe sleeves. Some ridiculous culminating act after months and months of repetitive rhetoric. 

Harry shares her fears at least, but being Head Auror keeps him far too busy to plan legislative solutions. Ron hears her out too, but he’s swamped as co-owner of Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes and enjoying newlywed life with Luna. Ginny lends a sympathetic ear in between bouts of exhaustion as a new mother. 

“I told you so,” is a hollow verbal victory when the Daily Prophet hits her kitchen table with the news of the Ministry’s answer to the “crisis.”

The new Minister is proposing the ultimate reunification proposal: The Matched Matrimonial Measure.

“Match-rimony!” cries the headline of almost every press outlet. Hermione reads on in disgust as the media trips over itself to sell this law as something worth praising. 

There are features on traditional family units, interviews with smiling old biddies who just want to see grandchildren in their lifetime, and quotes from young Ministry workers eager to do their part for their world.

Hermione tears every publication into tiny little pieces, gathers everything into a pile, and transfigures the scraps into a newsprint dragon that soars around her flat. 

Then she destroys it with a precisely cast Incendio.

 

 

Her friends flock to her side immediately. While the support is appreciated, Hermione fights the bitter resentment rising beneath her skin. None of her friends will be affected by this ghastly law. Compliance would be forced unto those:

-Of magical blood

-Between the ages of 17–35

-Unmarried or with no pre-existing engagement/betrothal before the deadline.

This lucky group would have the honor of:

-Having a “magical match” determined by some mysterious Ministry algorithm.

-Being legally shackled to this person for five years with the goal of producing a child.

Citizens were of course welcome to opt out of this law. If they’d prefer to accept a five-year wand ban. 

While her friends propose ridiculous solutions (“Just pick a random Muggle bloke to marry, then divorce and obliviate him,” suggests Ron), Hermione throws herself into research. She fought just as hard as her married friends for her place in the magical world and she won’t let the older generation wreck everything all over again. 

Weeks of legal research for precedents and counterarguments help build a solid groundwork for her case. For a time, the frenzied reading and note-taking pushes the melancholic anxiety to the back of her mind. But once she has her case crafted, it’s harder to ignore all the ridiculousness clamoring for her attention. 

The op-eds she pens for any publication that will print them only invite snide headlines and counterpoints from the older crowd, eager to label her a bitter spinster.

She’s 25 years-old. Twenty. Five. 

Hermione nobly bears the mockery and lets nothing deter her mission to have this proposal killed on the court floor. Her friends rise to the occasion: writing their own letters to the press and court members alike, trying to sow discord amongst their generation. 

As Hermione does not rank high enough in her department, she is not allowed to address the Wizengamot directly without an invitation. But Harry can. And bless him, her best friend pulls out all the “Boy-Who-Lived” stops. He executes Hermione’s arguments to the letter, tugs at heartstrings about what he, Hermione, and Ron did during the war, even draws parallels between this measure and some of Voldemort’s policies.

In the end, their efforts matter not. 

The law passes with a few edits to the original version. This new government is reasonable, you see. They listened to the feedback and graciously compromised. The mandatory marriages will now last three years instead of five (the original timeframe still applies to the wand-ban punishment) and the consummation and conception clauses have been stricken out. 

Hermione still has to marry a stranger chosen for her by the government by means of “magical compatibility.” She has to fill out a lengthy questionnaire, have her physical and mental health examined by a Healer, have her wand tested, and then perform a charm to record her magical signature with the Ministry. 

She hates the part of her that is intrigued by the process. Hermione has to constantly remind herself that the end result of all this “testing” is to shackle her to a man as the general public and the government all clamor for her to produce children with said man. 

The press only grows more excitable with each match announced. Some couples ride the publicity wave, turning the situation to their advantage and finding themselves media darlings. Indeed, the most covered event of the year is the nuptials between Daphne Greengrass and Cormac McLaggen. 

Hermione uses her wand to burn a hole through Cormac's grinning face, smugly situated on the front page of the Daily Prophet.

As more matches are announced, she grows ever more restless. She mentally ticks off eligible wizards’ names each day, wondering which of those left will be her fate. 

The anticipation forces her to consider wandless life. Could she withstand five whole years without her wand? How detrimental would it be for her career? 

Disastrous, probably. Especially with the Wolfsbane measure she needs to get off the ground. People—children—are counting on her.

In the end, she decides that keeping her wand will at least afford her the option of transfiguring her new spouse into a toad if she wishes. 

But looking down at the Ministry pronouncement in her hands, she pictures ferrets instead of toads. 

She’s set to marry Draco Malfoy in three weeks. 

 

“What about Australia?”

“America?”

“Still think ‘marry and memory-wipe a Muggle bloke’ is a good option.”

Hermione ignores her friends’ suggestions to flee once the news of her match breaks. A Muggle-born Registration Act didn’t deter her and she’ll certainly not let anyone or anything drive her off from her earned place. 

Instead she sends off two letters: an appeal to the Office of Matrimonial Affairs contesting the match and a letter to Malfoy requesting to meet. 

The appeal is denied. She drafts another and sends it along. 

Malfoy accepts her meeting request. 

 

Hermione arrives fifteen minutes early to the tea shop. She chose a cream-coloured silk blouse and grey slacks, aiming for a professionally casual look. Casually professional. It will keep her in character for this ridiculous meeting. She can pretend this is a business luncheon and not an absurd rendezvous regarding a violation of her autonomy. 

A thick folder sits on the table beside her tea, helping her mind keep the ruse. She’s brought a copy of the entire law in full, as well as her personal research. 

For the past few days, Hermione has researched the Malfoys so thoroughly she’s practically earned her NEWT on the family. She cares little for their genealogy and sordid history through two recent wars. She’s more interested in the Malfoys of today. 

Lucius, she learns, avoided a prison sentence by selling out everyone and anyone associated with Voldemort. The terms of his probation are so strict however, that it appears he’s practically under house arrest in his ridiculous manor. Hermione revels in the magical limitations they’ve set on his own wand.

Narcissa has fared better post-war, with nary a crime to her name. Though rarely seen in public, she’s let the family gold do the redemption work on her behalf. Hermione notes every Galleon spent, every cause deemed worthy of her donation. All above-board, all causes Hermione herself approves of and several she’s also associated with. 

And then there’s Draco. Her former schoolmate. Her…intended. Hermione banishes that last thought. He’s no more her “intended” than he is her friend. Becoming emotional over this horrific circumstance will make her lose focus and she needs to stay on track today. 

Draco has been quietly busy. Hermione can’t quite grasp what it is he does for a living, but he’s certainly not been idle. There’s reports and more than a few photographs of him abroad at galas and auctions. From what she can piece together, he’s styled himself as a more reputable version of the seedy Mr. Borgin. He’s some sort of artefact expert, assisting wealthy people in their quest to become even wealthier via the acquisition or sale of priceless objects.

As scant as the details are about his professional life, his personal life makes him seem like a ghostly recluse. 

Hermione is roused from her musings as the bell over the door chimes and a tall blond man enters. 

The tea shop is in Muggle London; the location is the first test that Draco passes. His gaze sweeps around the shop before finding her. With a sharp nod, he approaches her table. Hermione tries to note the differences in him so she can pretend this is someone else, someone new.

He seems taller, but that’s perhaps due to her memory of his physicality having dulled over the years. He looks broader too, but that could be because she’s never seen him in a three-piece suit before, as opposed to wizard robes. The singular white-blond Malfoy hair is neatly styled—short on the sides, long on top. Casual elegance connoting someone who cares for their appearance and has both the time and money to do so. 

He sits gracefully across from her and gives another nod. 

“Miss Granger.”

“Hi, uh, Malfoy.”

It’s a less eloquent start than she hoped for, but Hermione did not expect this version of Draco Malfoy and it throws her for a loop. She half expected a different “M” word to fall from his lips in greeting. 

They say nothing more until a server approaches and Draco orders his own tea and a sandwich. Hermione declines food, her stomach tied in so many different knots that eating is out of the question for a few hours yet. 

“Thank you for coming,” she finally says when he has a drink. 

“Of course,” he replies and sips his tea. He appears quite at his leisure, as if he has all the time in the world and nothing pressing as an arranged marriage with a former enemy weighing on his mind. 

Hermione has no more patience for the polite facade. 

“Did you support this law?”

“No.”

“But you didn’t fight it either.”

“No.”

His clipped answers betray nothing and Hermione bristles. 

“I think you ought to know that I’ve filed an appeal with the Ministry contesting our match. It’s nothing personal.”

Her statement is both a truth and a lie. She opposes this law on its face, but can’t deny that who she’s being made to marry hasn’t come into play. 

“Have they accepted any of your appeals thus far? I assume you’ve made multiple attempts by now.”

“They—I—no.” It unnerves her that he’s guessed correctly.

“Then might I suggest we discuss this marriage that will, in all likelihood, go forward? Unless you’re accepting the wand ban?”

“I—no. I’m not.”

He’s brought nothing with him to the table, and yet she feels like the unprepared party in this conversation. Her mind cannot reconcile the aloof, proper man across from her with the sneering bully at school, nor the snivelling coward during the war. None of her research prepared her for this man. 

Hermione’s notes on the law and his family had served as her anchor. All week she’d envisioned meeting with a rude, entitled prick who would be just as furious about this match. Yet, she watches him take dainty bites of a sandwich handed to him by a Muggle and dab his lips with a napkin and now feels adrift at sea.  

“You requested to meet,” he says. “Have you anything specific you’d like to say before I say my piece?”

“You truly don’t oppose our match?”

“I do not.”

“Then I suppose it’s only right of me to say that I do. Despite the Ministry’s current—hesitation—to hear me out, I won’t stop objecting. This law is an abomination and an alarming restriction of free will.”

He says nothing to her mission statement, just nods to show he’s listening. 

“So, um, I just wanted that to be clear,” Hermione continues. “What did you want to say?”

Draco takes a swig of tea then leans back in his seat. 

“Our wedding date is in two weeks.”

“Yes. Not much time for me to fight it, but I’m sure that was the Ministry’s idea.”

“Your efforts are thorough and admirable, I’m sure. However, I think a more productive use of our time is to presume it will occur and prepare for our new—ah—reality.”

She knows he’s right and it makes her want to throw scalding hot tea in his calm, impassive face. 

“Fine,” she clips, already mentally drafting her next appeal. “What were you hoping to decide on? It’s just going to be a brief, civil bonding ceremony at the Ministry.”

“We won’t have a proper proposal, engagement, or wedding. Neither of us. But I’d like a proper marriage.”

“Meaning?”

“Fidelity.”

“I—all right.”

Her surprise at the request has her agreeing before she can think through her answer. Hermione thought he might have pitched a marriage of convenience type of arrangement, with discreet paramours on the side. Freedom within the relationship that they’ve been denied by their government.

Draco continues his odd list. “Mutual support and respect.”

“Of course.”

If his appearance and demeanor have upended her world-view, this discussion of relationship preferences threatens to implode her universe. He’s brought no notes, but seems to be running down a mental checklist for his future wife. 

Hermione tosses out the next topic in an attempt to wrong-foot him.

“Do you want children?”

“Eventually. Do you?”

“Not—not right away.” She wonders if he knows her original answer had almost slipped out: Not with you.

“Then you’d have the three-year clause as an out. Should you wish to take it,” he says, seeming unbothered. 

If no children or pregnancies resulted after three years, the marriage could be dissolved with no legal entanglements, no more government interference. Hermione fully plans on taking advantage of this clause and already has a copy of the marriage dissolution form at home. 

Draco brings them back to the wedding. 

“Regarding the ceremony, I’ll provide the rings.”

“Oh. Thank you.”

She has no idea why she’s thanked him and blames the societal conditioning placed on women to express gratitude at every little thing. 

“Will your parents attend?”

“No. They live in Australia.”

“They wouldn’t return for your wedding?”

“I think they’d drag me back with them if they knew about this law. I’ll tell them after we’ve eloped.”

“Why not tell them everything?”

His blunt question, one he has no right to ask, succeeds in raising her ire.

“And your parents?” Hermione shoots back.

“What of them?”

“Are they going to be brandishing wands in my direction during the ceremony where I’m defiling their precious son?”

“My parents will attend and will behave civilly.”

Hermione settles back in her chair, wondering if that’s really a promise he can make. His firm tone brooks no argument and she decides she wants some real answers from him. 

“Why go through with this? You could have your pick of any pureblood heiress, I’m sure.”

“You mean, did I want to marry a complete stranger my father picked out for me? No. I’d much rather put faith in my magic.”

Hermione scoffs. “You really believe that rot? That it was all based on magical core compatibility?”

“Yes. Do you not?”

“I think the government is trying to sell this law by concocting a fairytale.”

Draco merely shrugs and it leaves Hermione at a loss. He just willingly believes their magic is compatible? Despite her many queries to the Department of Mysteries and trips to the Ministry resource library, she’s discovered no insights into this so called “core compatibility” spellwork. 

“Should we move on to living arrangements?” he asks. “I have a flat here in London, if you’re amenable.”

“You want me to move in with you?”

“We are meant to live together once we’re married,” he counters with a raised eyebrow.

“Or I could keep my flat.”

Draco smirks. She hates it.

“What’s the fastest way to kill a witch’s career?”

“Sexism.”

“Close. Disparage her reputation.”

“How does me keeping my flat hurt my reputation?”

“People talk, Granger. And they like talking about you. How do you think it will look for you if you’re living apart from your husband? People will assume you’re shirking the law or that you’re bringing dates round. You’d be branded a harlot.”

Hermione feels a flush bloom on her cheeks. “I don’t care what people think of me. I know my own character.”

“You don’t care if that limits your advancement opportunities? You're already insultingly overqualified for your current position.”

“You’ve tracked my career?”

“As if you didn’t research me before today,” he retorts and flicks his gaze at her brimming folder. Hermione slides it into her lap and glares at him. 

“Whether or not I’ve been unfairly passed over for leadership positions is none of your business.”

“What do you think is holding you back?” he asks with all the impertinence of an entitled male.

“My blood status,” she says flatly. 

Finally he looks uncomfortable. Good. 

He clears his throat and adjusts the tie knotted at his neck. 

“Parentage notwithstanding, the Ministry is essentially a self-serving patriarchy and you’re too much of an outsider. More than that, you take pride in it.”

“Some of us find conformity to be dangerous and narrow-minded.”

His lips purse as he takes another sip of tea. Hermione hopes it tastes bitter in his mouth. 

“I meant what I said earlier,” he says.

“Regarding?”

“Mutual support and respect. I was only hoping to offer some career advice, however I think it’s too early for such confidences. Have you anything scheduled for the remainder of the afternoon?”

“No.”

“Then would you like to see the flat?”

The server approaches to ask after them and Draco says, “Just the bill,” before immediately accepting the check.

“I can pay for my tea,” she insists but he shrugs again. 

“What’s mine is yours in two weeks anyway,” he says and she cannot for the life of her tell if he’s joking.

“So, the flat. Are you free now or do you need to fetch one of your oafish bodyguards first?”

Hermione sets her mouth in a thin line at the jab, yet part of her relishes in some of the old Malfoy seeping through. It justifies her mental image of throttling him.

“Lead the way.”

 

 

“Flat” is a generous undersell of Draco’s home. 

After darting down a discreet alley, he offers his arm for apparition and the next moment Hermione finds herself outside his front door. 

She drops her touch immediately. 

“I’d have apparated us inside, but you’re not allowed through the wards yet. I’ll add you now.”

He holds out an expectant hand and she allows him to grip her wrist and put his wand to her palm. Hermione stares at the floor while he murmurs an incantation for several excruciating minutes. 

When he quietly declares, “Done,” she rips her hand back and waits for him to open the door. 

Hermione retreats into a fantasy world again to avoid breaking down. She imagines he’s a realtor showing her a luxurious new place miraculously in her budget. Judging by the view out of the impressive sitting room windows, it appears they are on the top floor of a swanky building. Coupled with the length and size of the flat, it seems Draco owns the entire floor. 

He leads her down a long foyer to a gorgeous open kitchen with an attached, full dining room. Further down the hall she discovers two studies opposite each other. One is already stocked with floor to ceiling bookshelves, a few cabinets and a handsome desk. The other study is empty and Hermione’s mind begins planning how to fill it before she can stop it. Bare shelves always hold such promise for reorganization and adding of new texts. 

The final room is the bedroom. She takes his word for it that it has a large walk-in closet and attached bathroom. She has no desire to see where he sleeps, showers, keeps his possessions or clothes. It’s far too personal.

He follows her back out to the sparsely decorated sitting room, hands stuffed in his pockets. Her eyes take in the few abstract paintings on the walls, the pristine furniture, the bare hall table. He’s only placed two framed pictures on the fireplace mantel. 

“Did you have any questions?” he asks.

“Regarding?”

“My letter.”

Hermione stares at him, wondering how brutal she should be in this moment. She’s had dozens of thoughts, dozens of questions, about this man and his motivations in writing such a letter to her. She wants to ask if he meant it and an even more vindictive part of her wants to ask if he really wrote it himself. 

But one thought has bothered her more the last few days. 

“How did you know before I did?” 

A smug smile twists his mouth.

“Wizards were notified first in case we wanted to make a proper proposal of it. Still don’t think the Ministry operates as a patriarchy?”

Hermione scowls and turns to face the window. 

“The flat is suitable,” she says. “Thank you for the tour.” 

She doesn’t wait for his reply and instead apparates straight home. Though it’s still early afternoon, Hermione pours herself a generous glass of wine. 

An hour later, she blames the wine and the lack of food in her system for the tears that fall as she rereads Draco’s apology letter.

Why isn’t he angry? Why isn’t he fighting tooth and nail to avoid their joined fate? Where was the snotty, petulant Malfoy who resented anything and everything to do with her?

Because she could have used his anger. They could have teamed up in their shared distaste for one another, banded together to truly fight this law. 

Now he just feels like one more person complicit in her demise.

She stops mid-pour of another glass when she remembers he used Muggle money earlier.

 

 

A now familiar owl arrives the next morning with some interesting information from Draco.  

“I will be out of the country on business this weekend,” reads his letter, “should you wish to move your things in.”

She wonders if he travels often. Perhaps this won’t be so bad after all, with a husband off in other countries most of the time, that huge space all to herself. 

Hermione takes him up on the offer to move in and further inspect her new living situation without him breathing down her neck. 

A few surprises await her when she has the last of her boxes stacked in the front hall. There’s another wardrobe in the master bedroom and a new nightstand. Peeking into the bathroom, an area she neglected to inspect the first time, she discovers a large shower stall with bench seat, a marble tub in the corner, and a dual vanity. He’s left a few toiletries on the counter, but only on one side.

Trying not to jump to preposterous conclusions, she heads to the massive walk-in closet. Draco apparently owns a vast collection of Muggle designer suits and other bespoke wear in addition to his robes. But what causes her pulse to race is the fact that he left one side of the closet completely empty. 

He intends for them to share this bedroom. Because it is the only bedroom.

She flees the room and darts down the hall to her designated study. Sinking into a chair, she quickly calculates the space in here and realizes it cannot double as both a bedroom and living quarters for her.

More than a few heavy sighs and many flourishes of her wand later, and Hermione has moved all her belongings into the master suite. 

She could pretend she’s the heroine at the beginning of a Regency novel, thrown into a relationship with a mysterious stranger she doesn’t know. Except Hermione does know her future husband. She knows Draco Malfoy. He is no dashing, reclusive nobleman. He’s the bigoted git who made a lot of poor choices. And she is no helpless, penniless damsel in need of an advantageous match. 

Hermione sits at the writing desk in her new private study and drafts her fifth appeal to the Ministry. 

Then she apparates to Harry and Ginny’s home. She has no intention of staying here any sooner than forced. 

Notes:

Oh hello! Welcome to another multi-chapter! I've always wanted to write marriage law and, well, *gestures at fic*.
I cannot thank smozark enough for pre-reading this for me and bgonemydear for the fantastic betawork (i promise to fix my ellipses habits. one day.)

So uh, no idea about chapter count/word count/posting schedule! This thing is fully plotted and about half written, so hopefully some of you are down with updates as I feel up to it :)

Come yell at me: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 2: Chapter 2

Notes:

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
She throws up the morning of the wedding in the Potters’ bathroom. Hunching over the toilet, Hermione retches a few more times, but skipping breakfast makes this a useless, painful act. 

As she slumps over the sink and splashes cold water on her face, Ginny rubs her back. 

“Since you won’t let me murder Malfoy, let me at least do your hair and makeup for you?”

Hermione nods weakly and allows herself to be pampered. Ginny applies a light dusting of makeup, just enough to conceal her pale, clammy countenance. 

As Ginny carefully handles her curls and wrangles them into a simple braid, Hermione barely avoids bursting into tears.

Her friend squeezes her shoulders. “Hey. You’re the bravest person I know, but you don’t have to fight this alone. You also don’t have to go through with it at all.”

Hermione shakes her head and swallows the lump in her throat. “No. I won’t let them win. And you and Harry have done enough. Just—just be there for me. Today. During…it.”

She counts deep breaths and then counts the years. Only three. This will be a mere blip in her story. Three years and then freedom. Three years of surface compliance while she works on the best way to enact a subterfuge. 

In addition to a copy of the marriage dissolution form, Hermione keeps a list of every Wizengamot member who voted for the marriage law, each publication and journalist who supported it, and every member of Minister Lance’s staff. 

She dons her battle armor: an ivory, long-sleeved sheath dress. It’s a small rebellion that she cherishes. If she’s being made to marry a pureblood scion or temporarily forfeit a wand, she’ll do so in Muggle fashion. 

“I know you said not to interfere further, but Harry and I may or may not have sent a strongly worded letter to Malfoy,” confesses Ginny as she zips the back of the dress. 

“I should have known.”

“Ron sent a Howler.”

“I expected nothing less.”

“Luna sent him a book on common poisons and their antidotes. In case you attempted the premature widow route.”

“Kind of her to consider saving me from prison, but I’m not sure poisoning will help.”

Ginny takes the hint and stops trying to wring laughs out of her. 

The walk through the Ministry halls is a solemn one. Luna and Ginny flank her, each holding one of her hands. Harry and Ron walk in front, attempting to shield her from curious onlookers. 

All three Malfoys await her in the ceremony room. Neither group greets the other; her friends usher her along to the opposite side of the room and huddle around her. Hermione at least appreciates the extremely un-romantic setting of what is essentially a conference space. 

No one says a word. Hermione stares at the clock above the door and wills the oppressive silence to smother her. With a quick, covert glance, she observes the other party. Lucius is dressed for a funeral, but Narcissa looks elegant as ever in sage coloured robes. 

Draco is wearing traditional, formal black robes. Full wedding regalia, cape included. He looks every bit the impending groom and the sight makes Hermione’s palms sweat and her stomach churn. 

Dramatic options for escape compete for her thoughts. Running out of the room, stealing several Portkeys and hiding out in Australia. Disappearing into the Muggle world. Transfiguring her features and having a new wand made abroad. In each and every scenario, she hexes Lucius Malfoy in the face on her way out. 

She snaps back to the present as someone clears their throat. The officiant enters with a jubilant smile and a clear inability to read the somber room. 

“If you all want to take your places, we can begin.”

Hermione doesn’t want to do any of this, but feels her limbs move of their own accord. A hand that might have been Ginny’s or Harry’s gives her one last squeeze as she walks to stand before the officiant. 

The insipid, compliant bureaucrat who will doom Hermione has the audacity to hum and grin as Draco approaches. 

They’re side by side. He’s close enough for Hermione to hear his even breathing, to smell his cologne. Though it’s a pleasant scent, she still feels bile rising in her throat.

The officiant blathers for a few minutes about the joys of marriage and the importance of today’s ceremony. Hermione envisions cursing the man’s blood to boil within his veins and having him die a slow, painful death. She only resists because she’s left her wand next to Ginny. Thinking through the particulars of a new measure she wants to draft on behalf of werewolf minors allows her to sufficiently disassociate. 

She’s brought back to earth with an unfortunate command. 

“Please face each other and join hands,” the man orders with all the cheer of a proud older relative presiding over a happy occasion.

Draco’s hands tremble slightly when Hermione takes them, and she gives them a reassuring squeeze. She hates her own instinctual kindness and compensates by avoiding eye contact.

“Mr. Malfoy, please repeat after me.”

A voice forces her gaze up. Draco’s voice. 

“I call upon these persons here present, to witness that I, Draco, do take thee, Hermione, to be my lawful wife. To be loving, faithful and loyal to thee in our married life together.”

It’s a tone she’s never heard from his mouth before. Low and serious, his unwavering voice is warm to her ears. This was the boy who had made fun of her teeth, her hair, her blood. Now he stands before her spouting earnest-sounding pledges. 

“Miss Granger, please repeat after me.”

Hermione mutters the vows as quickly as she can, eyes once more centered on Malfoy’s chest. False oaths fall from her lips. She does not mean these words and resents having to say them at all.

“And—ah—the rings?” asks the bellend in charge of her autonomy. The idiot at least seems to have cottoned on to Hermione’s barely contained contempt.

“I have them,” says Draco, producing two gold bands from his inner breast pocket. 

Slightly-more-aware bellend asks Draco to repeat more binding words. 

He holds the band just at her fingertip and recites in that same, oddly gentle tone:

“I give you this ring as a symbol of our love. All that I am, I give to you. All that I have, I share with you. May this ring remind you always of the words we have spoken today.”

As he pushes gold past her knuckle, Hermione catches a glimpse of her new shackle: a simple band with one shining stone (muted emerald, she thinks) in the center. It’s light and understated, the antithesis of everything she knows the Malfoy family to be. 

“Miss Granger, if you’d now repeat after me.”

Hermione mirrors Draco’s actions, but not his cadence. She cannot keep the bitterness out of her voice. Draco’s ring, she notices, while appearing identical in design, has a blue gem she knows very well. A sapphire. 

Hermione drops his hand the second the ring goes far enough without being in danger of falling off. The officiant awkwardly clears his throat and reminds her of the final step.

“Ahem. If you could—ah—join hands, please? We’ll seal the bond now.”

Hermione knows it’s a symbolic binding, but it burns all the same as she takes Draco’s hands again and has a wand waved over them. 

“With the authority invested in me by the Ministry of Magic, I now declare you bonded for life. May this magic seal your union.”

Hermione immediately lets go and smooths down her dress. A kiss is not required, only customary, and she won’t cooperate with that tradition today. Draco makes no move towards her either until the blasted government lackey continues his mission to make this day as hellish as possible. 

“Just need to take your photograph for the Hall of Records.”

He absolutely does not. It may or may not end up in an official file somewhere, but Hermione knows its true destination is tomorrow’s edition of The Daily Prophet. She and Draco will likely dominate the front page. 

Hermione turns towards the waiting camera and finds her arm gently tugged as Draco loops it through his elbow. The flash goes off and Hermione has no idea what sort of expression her face makes. Perhaps her moving photograph will indulge in a two-finger salute. 

“Congratulations, Mr. and Mrs. Malfoy!” announces the man whose name Hermione will learn so she can curse his entire family tree. 

He produces a marriage certificate for signing. It’s another stone around Hermione’s neck as she waits for Draco to finish. He has neat penmanship, elegant curves to his letters, even with how hastily he signs his name. 

Hermione forgot this choice would be upon her today. In the infinitesimal moment between inking the quill and signing her name, Hermione remembers every snide congratulations she’s received from passive aggressive colleagues this week, and every past comment from her department head about how she shouldn’t mind the long hours at work since it isn’t like she has a husband or children waiting for her at home.

She recalls Draco’s observations about her stalled career, how she refuses to play the game and it holds her back. A rigged game. 

She pulls a half-measure, adds a hyphen after “Granger.” Leaving the familiar written territory for a new land, her shaking hand manages to form the letters of a name she’s never had to write next to hers before: Malfoy. It looks out of place, almost sloppy, compared to the way her practiced hand deftly wrote her own surname. 

Hermione Granger-Malfoy. Her three-year sentence as this identity begins now.

The odious officiant takes the scroll, humming to himself again as he stuffs it inside his robes. 

“Well, what’s next for the newlyweds? Will you be—?”

“I believe we’re done here,” Draco interrupts, all previous warmth gone. 

“Of—of course. Have a good day.”

The man hurries from the room, and two people swiftly approach next, blocking Hermione’s escape. Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy are now standing mere feet from her. Behind them, Hermione sees her friends rise but keep a cautious distance. Ron probably already has his wand drawn. 

For one agonizing moment, no one says a word. Then, Lucius offers Draco his hand. 

“Congratulations,” he drawls. Without sparing Hermione even a glance, he turns and sweeps from the room. 

Narcissa remains before them, a demure smile on her face as if her husband hasn’t just acted like a petulant child. 

She moves forward, stands on tiptoes, and pecks her son on both cheeks. “Congratulations, darling.”

“Thank you, Mother.”

“And you, Hermione.”

“Oh. Thank you.” Before Hermione can register anything else, Narcissa has brushed air kisses to each side of her face. 

“We hope to host you at the Manor soon,” Narcissa says, eyes turning hopefully up at Draco. 

“Thank you, Mother, we’ll let you know,” he replies. Narcissa bestows one last smile before sweeping along after her immature husband. 

Her friends are upon them now with glares for Draco and embraces for her. No one utters a word, not even Luna. Hermione doesn’t let the hugs linger; her friends have done all they can do and she’ll take it from here. Like she always does. 

“I’ll be fine, it’s fine,” she finds herself reassuring them. “Thank you all for coming.”

“Hermione—”

“Please don’t, Ron. I said it’s fine.”

She can handle this. She will handle this. 

Ginny returns her wand and gives one final whisper: “Our Floo is always open.”

When her friends leave, the closing of the conference room door behind them rings out like a death knell. Hermione’s throat tightens, her chest constricts. It hasn’t hit her until this very moment but now the awful truth sets in.

She lost. 

The last thing Hermione needs right now is small talk, but he turns to her. Her new husband. “If you’re hungry there’s—”

She cuts him off by apparating away, right into the flat’s living room.

“—brunch at the flat,” he finishes, appearing just beside her. 

A veritable feast awaits her on the dining room table. Baskets of pastries, fruit arrangements—plates, bowls, and cups all overflowing with food that could feed the two of them for weeks. 

“Did you—?”

“No,” says Draco. “My mother arranged it all. She wanted to host a proper reception at the Manor but I didn’t think you’d attend.”

“How kind of your family’s elves to provide us with the fruits of their unpaid labor.”

When he scowls, she feels for a brief moment that she’s landed some sort of victory. Provoking the tiniest bit of displeasure from him creates a little pocket of inner happiness. She is miserable and he should be too. 

But now it returns: the tight throat, the constricted chest. The misery chokes her and makes her vision swim. 

“Bathroom,” she mutters before turning and almost sprinting down the hall. Shaky hands don’t allow her the satisfaction of slamming the door, but rather she heaves it closed and locks it. Her reflection repulses her: a pale face and white dress. She is a weak, powerless thing reduced to chattel by the government. 

Hermione braces herself against the counter, trying to find an anchor by noting the mundane objects that cover the surface. His toothbrush, her toothbrush. His comb, her brush. His razor, her lotion. 

His things and her things. His and hers. His and hers. His and hers. 

She silences the room and screams herself hoarse. The release she hasn’t granted herself, hasn’t allowed herself to feel, comes roaring out in streaming tears and shuddering gasps. It’s an indulgence she never had time for in the weeks leading up to the wedding. Ever since the Act passed, Hermione barreled forward with a mission, a purpose. A fight she’s now lost. The reminders of her failure are scattered across this beautiful granite counter, and reflected back at her in the mirror. 

Sinking to the floor, Hermione gulps in breath and clutches her chest. When she covers her face in her hands, an unfamiliar bit of gold captures her attention. She rips the ring off and glares at it. Technically she doesn’t have to wear it. The parchment signing and vow-speaking took care of the marriage business. But she knows a bare ring finger will attract even more unwanted attention and invasive questions. Hermione cannot afford societal shunning at the moment, nor malicious gossip. More important things than this unwanted match will need her focus now. 

You lost, move on.

The ring in her palm twinkles innocently at her and the bathroom lighting reveals something odd. It’s a different color now. What she’d thought of as a muted emerald is now more a purple-tinged red. 

The strange gem hijacks her senses long enough for her heart rate to slow and her breathing to steady. The renewed calm lets Hermione find what little sliver of a silver lining she can. 

For one thing, Draco has no stated expectations, and has made no actual demands that weren’t already included in the Act itself. He graciously offered his home to her. The civil demeanor is the bare minimum, she knows, but he could have made this far worse. 

Rinsing her face with cold water, Hermione has no care for whether her makeup smudges or if her red-rimmed eyes are too obvious. Along with the return of her poise, her hunger makes a sudden reappearance. She’ll partake in this meal with him now, but no more elf-made feasts from Malfoy Manor. 

But before she rejoins him, Hermione stops at the bedside nightstand. Conjuring a pen, she opens the drawer and takes out the Marriage Dissolution Form. She neatly inks her name, replaces the parchment, and closes the drawer. Of course, it won’t do her any good for the next three years, but knowing her escape resides there provides a small comfort. 

Draco has filled a plate but hasn’t started eating when she finally re-enters the dining room. Hermione ignores the etiquette attempt. If he expects praise for such silly chivalry, he won’t be hearing it from her lips today or any other. Only once she’s piled her own plate with food does he begin to eat. 

“Feeling better?” he asks. Though it’s said tonelessly, the question is pointed, his grey eyes sliding to her full plate. 

“Yes.”

The silence becomes excruciating and oppressive. Hermione already yelled until her lungs burned in the bathroom, but the continued quiet almost spurs her to violence just for the sake of a loud noise. Flexing her hands in her lap, Hermione is again reminded of her new jewelry. 

“The ring,” she pipes up, “it’s a lovely piece. What’s the center gem?”

“Alexandrite. It’s my birthstone.”

“And you’re wearing sapphire.”

“Yes.”

It’s a far more romantic gesture than their circumstance calls for. Perhaps he’s just playacting all the sentimental touches he’d do with a real wife. 

As angry as Hermione wants to be with this man, she knows he also did not ask for this situation. Despite his statement to the contrary during their tea shop meeting, he can’t possibly have envisioned this as a positive outcome and would probably prefer some fellow fussy pureblood instead of her. 

“Look, I just want to reiterate that it wasn’t personal,” Hermione says in an attempt to broker some peace. “My objections to the law.”

“I know. I read your op-eds.”

While his reply surprises her, she also notes he didn’t say whether he agrees with her.

“Did you also read the responses to them?”

“No. My time is valuable and I don’t bother reading drivel written by barely literate imbeciles.” With that, Draco stands and vanishes his empty plate. “Have you had enough to eat?”

When she nods, he vanishes her plate and then the remainder of the untouched food.

“Wait, where did you—?”

“Those dishes are charmed from the Manor and tethered to the kitchens. The food will return to the elves and won’t go to waste. There’s dinner in our kitchen if you’re hungry later. I’ll be in my study.”

He strides away before she can interrogate the magical theory behind such a Charm. 

 

Hermione whiles away the afternoon and evening in her own study. Once she’s alphabetized and reshelved all her books, she moves next to her new desk. After an hour, she’s satisfied with the organizational flow of all her supplies and desperate for more to occupy her thoughts. 

As she settles in with her latest Wolfsbane Potion proposal draft, she hears Draco’s study door open, then close, then the clicking of shoes as he retreats down the hall. When he doesn’t return, she knows he’s probably gone to bed. 

In the bedroom where all her clothes and toiletries now live. 

Hermione does not read in bed. She is an intentional reader, and the bed is for sleeping. She finishes her draft edits and picks out a book at random: a biography of one of the earliest transfiguration theologians. She lasts another thirty minutes before her eyes begin to droop. Bed is now a necessity, though the process of going to bed presents a mortifying challenge. 

Feeling she can put this off no longer, she finds Draco already in bed, eyes closed and seemingly asleep. As quietly as she can, she rummages through her wardrobe for pajamas and scurries to the bathroom to change. 

Exhaustion seeps into her bones and she longs for the sweet relief the gigantic and soft-looking bed in front of her could bring. The catch being that it is occupied by a sleeping sort-of stranger. 

Draco’s eyes snap open as she dithers in the doorway. 

“Good night,” he says and closes his eyes again. His body language says he’s comfortable sharing. He’s as far to one side as he can possibly be in the enormous bed and, from what she can see of him, is gratefully wearing a long-sleeved cotton top. 

Hermione nods at nothing and awkwardly climbs in. Her feet did not receive the message that this would be monumentally weird and the second her back hits the mattress followed by her head on the pillow, Hermione’s traitorous body has soundly defeated her mind. 

She’s asleep within minutes.

 

Hermione awakes with a jolt. The memories from the previous day and night trickle in before she can panic. 

She had let luxury lull her into a decent night’s sleep and refuses to waste time on guilt for that fact. Peeking over at her bed partner, she finds him just as she left him last night: flat on his back, eyes closed, a rhythmic rise and fall to his chest. 

She gets out of bed as gently as possible and decides to take advantage of the massive shower before Draco wakes and attempts some sort of powerplay over who should shower first. But she has a blissful, uninterrupted time in the perfect temperature spray, attempting to wash away any lingering loud thoughts about her current circumstances.

Draco is awake when she exits the bathroom and acknowledges her with a monotone, “Good morning,” before sweeping by her into the bathroom.

Hermione feels charitable enough to put on a full kettle, but only prepares her own tea as she: 1) has no idea how he takes his and, 2) doesn’t care.

She’s swinging dangerously between apathy and bitterness and is mildly concerned about where she’ll land moment to moment. 

He saunters into the kitchen like he owns the place. With another jolt, she realizes he does.

“I can pay,” she blurts out.

Draco pauses mid-pour to look at her. “Pardon?”

“For the flat. I can pay a portion of the mortgage or rent.”

“Why?” His confusion seems genuine.

“It’s only fair, don’t you think?”

“No need,” he says with finality and joins her at the kitchen island.  

“Fine, then perhaps I can contribute another way to the…household?”

He sighs and takes a long sip before answering. “A cleaner comes every other Tuesday, laundry service is Wednesday, the pantry is restocked every Friday. If you have a specific grocery request, write it on that parchment.” He points towards a blank parchment nailed to the wall besides the tea cupboard. 

“And this is all done via—?”

“Paid human hands.”

“That must all cost an awful lot.”

Draco rolls his eyes. “We’ll manage.”

Hermione’s retort is lost to the owl tapping on the window. She jumps up before Draco can move, eager to scour today’s nonsense. 

She’s greeted by her own face on the Prophet’s front page. Expected though it may have been, it still stings to be proven right in this instance. 

Her gaze zips past the photo to the article itself. Rage clouds her vision after just the headline: “Draco Malfoy Weds Hermione Granger: Inside Their Intimate Ceremony.” According to this piece, both Hermione’s friends and Draco’s family attended in a show of “enthusiastic support” for the couple. 

Quotes from presiding Ministry representative Orson Whittleby jump out at her about the “nervous, yet besotted bride” and her “equally enamored groom.”

Hermione mentally adds Whittleby to what she’s calling her “complicity list.”

Deciding the rest will only cause accidental and possibly destructive magic to burst from her, Hermione studies the picture. While it’s a moving, magically developed photo, her face has a neutral, placid expression while Draco appears stoic, yet oddly static.

“They didn’t do the full Charm,” Hermione mutters. 

“Sorry?”

“For our photograph.” She hands Draco the paper. “See how short the loop is? How stilted our movements are? If they’d performed the spell properly we’d be moving freely within the frame.”

“I highly doubt the editors wanted a photo of you clawing my eyes out for such a prominent news item,” he drawls. 

Hermione rips the paper from his hands and flips to the back sections. Draco doesn’t offer any more commentary for the rest of the morning. 

She finds her new husband is cold in every sense of the word. When he happens upon her wandering about the sitting room and taking stock of the surrounding walls, he offers a cool, “You may decorate as you wish.”

Hermione shrugs and wraps her arms around her middle. “Perhaps I’ll put up a few pictures. I prefer a minimalist style myself.”

He leaves without a word as Hermione approaches the fireplace. There are two framed photos on the mantel: one of Draco’s family from when he appears to be about five or six, and another that looks like he might have just left Hogwarts. In the first, the child version pulls excitedly at both his parents’ hands as they each smile indulgently down at their young son. But in the second, his parents stand behind him, each with a hand on his shoulder, their son taller than both. This Draco smooths down his robes and stares vaguely into the mid-distance. 

Hermione returns with a picture of her, Harry, and Ron with baby James and another of her and her parents from the previous summer. If she has to Floo through here every morning she’ll at least do it with her smiling godson’s face to cheer her instead of just Lucius’s dour disapproval. 

She’s on her way to work the following morning (yes, after another night in the shared bed, best not to think too hard about it) when she notices another frame now rests there. 

Draco has put up their photo from the wedding day. A photo with the proper spellwork applied. Hermione’s face is tense and frowning down at where their bodies are linked at the elbow. But it’s Draco’s tight, nervous smile as he keeps glancing down at her face that occupies her thoughts long after she Floos to work. 

 

in these silent days2

 

Notes:

Weddings, amirite? Thanks for reading!

I cannot thank smozark enough for pre-reading this for me and bgonemydear for the fantastic betawork.

Come yell at me: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 3: Chapter 3

Notes:

Just some quick things about this story:

1.) If you're looking for a story of insta-love or even insta-lust, this isn't it. If you're expecting Hermione to drop to her knees for Draco because he was nice to her a few times thus far, this probably isn't the story for you.
2.) I really, truly, fervently meant that slow-burn tag. The burn is slow.
3.) as much as i would love to commit to an update schedule, i physically can't. while im striving for once a week, that's not always going to be possible. i can tell you this is a fully plotted story and it will absolutely be finished.

Thank you, and happy reading <3
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione catches open stares in the Atrium, in the lifts, in the halls, but no one is bold enough to speak until she reaches her department corridor. 

“Congratulations!” one of the administrative assistants gushes and the surrounding workers all whip their heads in her direction. 

She’s weathered unwanted attention before, but this level of gleeful scrutiny burns. Half of the people gawping actually believe she’s over the moon for her new husband while the other half enjoy seeing her cut down to size, knowing her disdain for this disgusting law.

Her department head intercepts her before she can make it to the safety of her office to wring her hand. “Lovely, just lovely,” Geoffrey Lawson says, all wide grin and yellowing teeth. “So wonderful to see you finally settle down.”

Hermione can only grit her teeth and keep her wand holstered. Hexing her superior won’t help her get legislation passed. 

“Surprised you didn’t request any time off,” Lawson continues with a chuckle. “Merlin knows your husband can afford a lavish honeymoon.”

A strangled, unhinged laugh claws out of her throat, but seems to appease her department head as an acceptable response to his ridiculous statement. 

Once behind a closed door, she lets her head rest on her desk for exactly three minutes. Then, she gets to work. She studiously ignores any memos in her in-tray containing any mention of her recent marriage. Lighting them on fire later will be her end of the day reward. 

A soft knock comes at mid-morning, and Hermione calls a firm, yet slightly nervous, “Come in!”

The door opens to reveal a petite, middle-aged woman. 

“Hi, Miss Granger? Or is it Mrs—?”

“Just Hermione is fine. And you must be Miriam.”

“Yes, pleasure to finally meet you.”

“Likewise, thank you so much for coming in to the Ministry. Tea?”

Miriam declines and Hermione gestures to the seat opposite her desk. This is a meeting Hermione has worked for months to secure and she hopes to avoid any moves that might scare Miriam away. 

“And how’s your son? Nathaniel, is that right?”

Miriam smiles. “He’s well, thank you. No new scars this month.”

Hermione tries not to wince. “That’s wonderful. His potion supply is still full?”

“We’re all stocked up. One of the luckier families.”

“Glad to hear it.” Hermione shifts in her chair. “Now I don’t want to make any lofty promises to you, but—”

“He’s so excited,” interrupts Miriam. “About going to Hogwarts in a few years. It’s all he’ll talk about.”

“And that’s why I’ve asked for your help.” Hermione shrugs her hair back and straightens up. She’s never been great at delivering rallying cries or inspiring speeches, but she needs to sway at least this one woman. 

“If I can have parent advocates like yourself willing to speak publicly and throw support behind this measure, then I believe it increases our odds of having it actually pass.”

Miriam eyes her warily, though not unkindly. “I’ll happily do that, but I can’t have Nate thrust into any sort of spotlight. He’s nine and that’s hard enough as it is, but to have his condition known could make Hogwarts hell for him.”

“Is that how the other parents feel?”

“Most of them. Many are considering the homeschool route.”

Hermione holds up her palms. “I understand that, I do. But the more support I can garner from the affected community, the stronger our case.”

“We don’t want to be a charity case or a tragic example.”

“No, you’ll be a champion for those who cannot safely come forward. As you said before, your family is one of the luckier ones. Let’s capitalize on that so that every child can attend Hogwarts if they wish to do so. These children deserve access to Wolfsbane without worrying about costs to their families or how they can get the same education as their non-werewolf peers.”

Miriam regards her for a long, silent moment. “What do you need from me?”

Hermione hands her a slip of parchment. “Take this draft to the other parents. This is what I’ll be asking for from the Wizengamot. If they have any other accommodations they think the children will need at school, I’d like to know now. We may not secure every demand—obviously the free potion access is the priority—but I need to better understand their needs.”

With a grim nod, Miriam stows it in her handbag. “I understand you personally knew Remus Lupin?”

“Yes. He was a dear friend.”

“He’s Nate’s hero. You have no idea how difficult it is to reframe some of these families’ mindsets about what a werewolf is, who the person is…” she trails off and clears her throat. “They’re just children.”

“Which is why I’m going to do everything in my power to get this passed,” Hermione asserts, trying to thread a fine line between determined and realistic. 

Miriam promises to keep Hermione updated on any progress made with others in the newer werewolf community and takes her leave. Alone again, Hermione slumps down in her chair, a relaxing breath whooshing out of her as she undoes her stiff posture. 

It’ll be worth it, she tells herself. All the hours she’s devoted to this department, all the incompetence from current leadership, all the pleading letters to families of those bitten and turned during Voldemort’s reign will be worth it if she can help these children. 

Buoyed by the step forward with Miriam, Hermione settles into other work with new zeal. Her good mood lasts all of forty minutes before the next memo destroys it. 

The flying memo wiggles under her door and comes to a floating halt. Her latest appeal to the Office of Matrimonial Affairs has been denied on the grounds that Hermione did not sign it with her correct legal name. 

When she sends off the next one, the ink reading “Hermione Granger-Malfoy” is so heavy it bleeds through the parchment. 

 

Her birthday has the misfortune of falling on a Monday. Which is fine, of course, it just means she has to wait until the weekend to celebrate with any of her friends. The weeknights are too busy for everyone with full-time careers, spouses, and in Harry and Ginny’s case, a small child.

Hermione doesn’t rank as highly in their lives as she once did. Which is fine, people age and priorities shift, it’s the natural way of things, she reasons. Besides, they all sent gifts and cards that morning. She enters the kitchen to find an impressive display on the table complete with a giant floral arrangement. 

Hermione smiles fondly at the envelopes as she recognizes Harry’s chicken scratch handwriting juxtaposed next to her mother’s impeccable penmanship. 

Distantly she hears the shower stop and Draco moving about the bedroom. Their bedroom. 

It’s been a few weeks of…well, a routine, she supposes. Hermione always wakes first, showers, and sets out the kettle. He’ll join her after a lengthy shower of his own and sit right beside her as they eat their respective breakfasts and read the paper. Any conversation between them is brief and polite. Then Hermione leaves first for work and goes about her day. She returns first as well, with Draco unfailingly arriving not two minutes after her. Hermione prepares dinner and he never complains about the meal as they silently partake. They then adjourn to their own studies before retiring to bed for the night and exchanging a simple, “Goodnight.”

That’s it, that’s her life now. A month into this arrangement and it’s a stable ennui of an existence, each predictable day flowing into the next. Draco hasn’t done much but live on her periphery. It’s not at all what she expected and while she appreciates his effort of giving her space, it might not be the worst idea to try a little harder to get to know him. 

She’s also sick to death of responding to her friends’ curious questions: “How’s Malfoy?” “Anything new with the ferret?”

Because all Hermione can do is shrug and say he’s no bother at all. 

“Good morning,” she says brightly when he comes into the kitchen, aiming for friendly. 

“Good morning. Happy birthday.”

“Oh. Thank you. I suppose all this gave it away?” Hermione waves a hand at her present pile and flowers. 

“No.”

He prepares his tea in silence then stops and turns back to her. “Something special for dinner tonight? We could go out or—?”

“No. Thank you.”

Her curt refusal falls out of her mouth before she can think it through. Draco seems as puzzled by her reaction as she is by his ridiculous question. 

“But it’s…it’s your birthday,” he says slowly. “You don’t want to—?”

“It’s fine, I don’t require a fuss.”

“It’s hardly a fuss, I only asked about a special dinner.”

“Which I’ve said isn’t necessary, so could you just leave it?”

“Fine.”

“Fine.”

She decides to Floo early, if only to escape the unbearable awkward tension. Tension she created with her snappish replies. Her sour mood persists through the morning, and it’s not until she’s halfway through lunch that she can properly analyze her reaction to his simple offer. 

No one else in her life has asked how she wants to celebrate her birthday. Sure, she gets check-ins every other day about Malfoy and her general well-being, but nothing other than “we can go out on the weekend, yeah?” in regards to today. 

Yet Draco, who does not care for her at all, has the decency to inquire about her birthday dinner preferences. 

 

In addition to the unopened presents and cards she left this morning, Hermione also finds Draco waiting in the kitchen when she gets back from work. A deviation from their month-long routine. 

“Oh, hello. You’re here early,” she says, hoping she doesn’t sound rude. 

Draco shrugs. “I thought you might change your mind.”

Hermione purses her lips. Truly, she hoped for an empty flat so she could lock herself in the bathroom and finally try out that luxurious looking marble tub.  

“I told you this morning. I don’t like making a big deal about my birthday.”

“Why?”

Hermione stares back at him, trying to suss out any mockery in his question. He appears sincere, though almost bored, but she’s learned over the last month or so that the careless, neutral expression is the Draco Default. 

“Because no one else ever does,” she says. She should cover her mouth in mortification at such an admission but after a moment’s pause, feels no shame whatsoever. 

“No one else ever does,” she repeats, the notion hitting harder, hurting more, than she’s previously allowed. 

Draco raises an eyebrow in an entreaty to elaborate. She does, slow and quiet at first. “I plan Ron’s birthday because Luna has no organizational skills. I handle reservations for Ginny’s because Harry is hopeless and doesn’t know which restaurants will actually give us privacy.”

Her voice grows in both strength and volume as she continues. “And—and when Ron and I were dating I made sure he didn’t forget his Mum’s birthday or that Arthur received something from his favorite Muggle bakery and—and—and my parents are across the world and when I was at Hogwarts I think sort of thought I’d just celebrate with my friends. But you know, my birthday is so early in the school term it got swept aside for other things, never mind that I ensured Harry and Ron got thoughtful gifts every single year! God, the amount of time I’ve wasted in Quidditch shops asking for help to pick something they’d enjoy because I haven’t the first bloody clue about what’s in or what’s not and—and—”

“And so once you’ve taken a breath, tell me what you’d like tonight. I can arrange for anything you want.”

She’s sitting, she can’t remember when that happened, and yet has to gulp in air. Sweat slicks her palms and forehead and the buzzing in her ears is the last warning. Hermione swallows oxygen, concentrates on it flooding her body, counts her heartbeats and waits for them to slow. 

She will not endure a panic attack with Draco standing mere feet from her. She will not crumble in front of him. He doesn’t say anything more, just waits for her to collect her wits. Hermione’s eyes rake over his still form—all lean, relaxed limbs contrasted with the hard edges of his jaw and face. His hair is another juxtaposition to his marble features. It looks soft and bright, a downy halo in the dim kitchen light. 

She can now manage a reply to his question. “Do you remember the tea shop where we met?”

“Yes.”

“Two doors down is my favorite takeaway. It’s Muggle.”

“What would you like?”

“You’re okay to—to just go out and—fetch it?”

“What would you like?” he repeats, and Hermione detects an impatient bite this time. 

“Lamb vindaloo. Please.”

“That’s all?”

She bites her lip then decides to indulge herself. “And mango lassi.”

He nods and exits through the front door, leaving Hermione with the bizarre urge to giggle.

“How was your birthday, Hermione?”

“It was wild, you wouldn’t believe. My Ministry-mandated husband picked up food for me and I decided to go crazy and order a mango lassi. A rager, truly.”

Draco returns in under an hour and despite the mundane nature of the meal, Hermione experiences the most surreal birthday of her life.

He says nothing at all to her besides a flat “Cheers,” when she hands him a glass of wine. If she wanted to eat in silence, she would have just gone out by herself. 

“What did you order?” She asks.

He pauses with the wine halfway to his lips, which is as close to a shocked expression as she’s ever seen on him.

“Palak paneer.”

“Do you like it?”

“Usually.”

“I’m surprised you were so agreeable to my choice.”

“I’ve traveled quite extensively. My palate is broader than you assume.”

Hermione frowns. “Maybe if you shared more with me about what it is you do exactly I wouldn’t have to rely on assumptions.”

“You’ve never asked me.”

“I—uh. That is true. So, um, what do you do?”

Draco takes his time answering. He has another bite of food, a sip of wine, then dabs his lips before deigning to reply. 

“I think the most accurate moniker is artefact specialist. I help curate private collections and maintain my own. My expertise is in identifying rare objects and assigning the proper value to them. That usually requires that I travel abroad to assess artefacts, verify their integrity, and if there’s an auction or sale conducted, advise any clients that hire me to help them bid or negotiate.”

“You don’t run a shop like Borgin and Burkes do you?”

Draco lets loose a mirthless laugh. “That shop is run by a seedy swindler with no care for the magic in the objects he trades and sells.”

“And what makes you so qualified to assign value and suggest prices?”

He holds her gaze for a long moment. “I know quality when I see it.”

“Do you have a Charms mastery? If I recall correctly, that was your strongest subject at school.”

“No I—” He almost looks flustered then collects himself. “I don’t have a mastery.”

“But then how—?”

“Merlin, I forgot how bloody tenacious you can be.”

“I’m just trying to get to know you.”

She’s properly shocked him now. His fists clench beside his plate then move to his lap as he sits back. He shakes his head once, twice, then raises his eyes to the ceiling with a loud sigh. 

“I spent the entirety of my Sixth Year repairing a broken Vanishing Cabinet. Complicated doesn’t even begin to describe it. It required reading an impossible number of magical theory texts on spell damage, curse removal, and magical reconstruction and hoping any combination of the three might work. Unfortunate though the circumstances may have been, I learned more about breaking down and rebuilding an old, enchanted object than any mastery could have taught me.”

It’s the most he’s ever said to her in one go. Hermione forgets about her dinner, leaning forward on her elbows. 

“I imagine you had to study curse identification as well?”

“Yes. I’ve always been drawn to cursed objects. Which is how I can spot the fake ones easily.”

“People try to pass off fakes? Why?”

“Heirlooms are rife with fakery. Some old biddie doesn’t want her prized brooch going to her ungrateful daughter or some other such pettiness and you hear rumors of the jewelry being cursed and dangerous. I can tell you, nine times out of ten it’s nothing but a mild Stinging Jinx overlaid with a Chameleon Colour Charm. But when something is truly, properly cursed? That’s what I get paid the most to do: investigate and then break the curse.”

“And people all over the world trust you to do this for them?”

“Ah, you’ve forgotten something important, Granger.”

“What?”

“I’m rich.” He smiles then, with this entire face, and there’s something of mischief sparking in his grey eyes. “I speak their language. They know my family name, most of them probably know my net worth more readily than their own children’s names. They trust that I’ve grown up around such extravagance that handling their most precious valuables is unlikely to turn my head and inspire thievery or duplicity. I’m also not some poor Ministry flack beholden to stringent reporting protocols either.”

“That’s a horribly classist attitude.”

“Of course it is. Classism aside, I’ll have you know I’m very good at my job and word of mouth is worth its weight in gold.”

“Is that what you do in your study here?”

“No. I try not to keep any artefacts here if I can help it.”

“Then where do you go all day?”

“The Manor.” He doesn’t elaborate and before she can shoot off another question, he asks, “And you? What’s your latest legislative focus?”

“Free Wolfsbane for minors.”

“That’s a pricey potion and difficult to brew.”

“Exactly.” Hermione leans forward even more. “It’s awful, what Greyback and his pack did. The official count post-war of new werewolves is…inaccurate, I’m sure. He bit mostly children.”

“I know.”

Her face flushes. “Yes, well, anyway, it’s unclear how pervasive the problem is when I can’t convince families to disclose their child’s condition. They’re right to be wary, I understand that based on how the Ministry’s treated werewolves in the past, but they need some way to get help. But it makes my job ten times harder when I cannot approach them outright. I need to convince parents that making our world more welcoming and accommodating will require some participation on their part. These children deserve an equitable education. For which they need reliable access to Wolfsbane. And—”

She cuts herself off and waits for the mocking comment. The reveal of bigotry. A sneer and a quip.

Instead he says, “You’re hoping to have this distributed to Hogwarts students specifically, I imagine.”

“Yes, that would be the bare minimum, though. I want all werewolf minors to have free potion access regardless of whether they attend school or not.”

Draco settles back in his chair and bestows a long, penetrating stare over his wine glass. “What are your odds of this passing?”

“Decent, I should think. Not sure how the Wizengamot can deny how this not only benefits an entire generation of young witches and wizards but could also be seen as a public safety measure.”

“Hmm, bold of you to assume they care for public safety over Galleons.”

She has biting retorts and even insults she could unleash, but Draco pushes back from the table and stands. 

“You should open your gifts,” he says and then clears his plates and heads to his study. 

When she’s finished reading cards, tearing wrappings off new books, her heart is less heavy in her chest. The giant bouquet beckons her and she leans forward to inhale the scent of the different petals. A small cardstock is nestled within and she plucks it up to read:

“Happy birthday— D.M.”

Hermione drops the card and staggers back. She stares at the flowers, a gorgeous collection of blues and purples, for almost a full minute, waiting for them to explode or rear up and strangle her. Reapproaching slowly, her tentative fingers stroke one of the purple petals. Nothing attacks her, it’s just an ordinary, if rather large, bouquet. 

Hermione knocks on his study door.

“Yes?”

She enters the room to find him sitting behind his desk, quill in hand, clearly mid-writing. Possibly bookkeeping from the brief glimpse she gets. 

“The bouquet is lovely. But I confess I don’t know much about flowers. What are—?”

“Clematis, iris, blue statice.”

“Thank you.”

“You’re welcome. The vase on the foyer table would probably be the best spot. Should you wish to keep them.”

“Thank you. Again. Well, I um…I’ll leave you to it.”

A memory surfaces of a conversation she once had with Luna. For her wedding to Ron, Luna personally wove flower crowns for all the guests. “Clematis for you Hermione,” Luna had said, fixing a crown of purple flowers atop her curls. “For mental beauty.”

After arranging the flowers as Draco had suggested, Hermione still can’t shake the memory. 

Pulling down a book on bouquet arrangement and flower meanings, her memory is proven correct. Purple clematis is for mental beauty and ingenuity. She runs her finger down the section on irises and finds that the blue can represent courage, wisdom, and admiration. She flips next to statice (blue) and sees the words loyalty and intelligence.

Could it have been thematic? Intentional? Possibly, she thinks. But on further thought, the most likely conclusion is he simply asked a florist to throw something together at the last minute for her. 

Applying intent where none can reliably be found, she knows, is a waste of her time.

in these silent days3

 

Notes:

Thank you for reading!

Thank you bgonemydear for being such a lovely, thoughtful beta. Thank you smozark for your pre-reading <3

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Find me here: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 4: Chapter 4

Notes:

i forgot this story has a playlist, so thanks to fiery_rhiannon for asking about it! here you go:

Diamonds- instrumental version from Bridgerton S2
How Deep is Your Love- instrumental version from Bridgerton S2
You Oughta Know- instrumental version from Bridgerton S2
No Surprises- Radiohead
You Don't Even Know Me (Stripped)- Faouzia
Terribly True- deanna petcoff
Dance Me to the End of Love- the civil wars
Tell it to My Heart- paris paloma
Kiss Me More- doja cat
Lovefool- the cardigans
My Love- florence and the machine
Animal- ellie goulding
The Chain- fleetwood mac
Can I Have a Kiss- kelly clarkson
Eavesdrop- the civil wars
Let it Be Hope- lxandra
Right on Time- brandi carlile ----> this one inspired the fic title
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
Visiting Gringotts is never a fun errand. Especially these days, when she’s regarded with open distrust by every goblin within. But it’s a chore she can put off no longer if she wants to visit the Apothecary after work. 

She’s used to the extra scrutiny of her wand, the emptying of her pockets and purse. It’s routine, just like the path the cart will take her to the vault. It’s two lefts, one right, down a small hill, past a particularly jagged bit of wall, two rights, one steeper hill, then around a big bend to her vault.

Or at least it should be. 

The cart goes left, then takes the first right. Now it’s going down, down, down, and Hermione has frightening déjà vu. 

“Where are we going?” she shouts to the goblin steering. “This isn’t the way.”

“We’re going to your vault, Madam.”

Her protests are lost to the wind as the cart speeds onward. She reaches for her wand, clutching it tightly in a clammy grip. She may not have polyjuice or an Invisibility Cloak as protection, but she won’t hesitate to fight her way out of this trap.

The cart comes to a stop just before a terrifyingly familiar waterfall. The Thieves’ Downfall. Hermione scrambles out on shaky legs. 

“Where have you brought me?” she demands, but the goblin only calmly presses his palm to a vault door. 

“To your vault, Mrs. Granger-Malfoy.”

This is not her vault, she realizes as the door opens to reveal obscene piles of gold. Gold she hasn’t earned. She grabs the fistful she needs, anger brewing in her veins at Draco’s unwelcome gilded surprise. 

 

The second Draco apparates into the flat, Hermione rounds on him. 

“Why have you added me to your Gringotts vault?”

“Because it is our vault,” he says in that infuriatingly measured tone. 

“I neither want nor need your money. Couldn’t have given me a warning? A little heads up would have been appreciated before I almost had a panic attack and hexed someone.”

“Apologies,” he says, voice affectless as ever, “I thought it was implied upon us signing the marriage certificate.”

Hermione flinches. Most days, he makes it easy to forget the horrifying reality of a forced union. But when little reminders enter the air between them, her reaction is consistently despair while Draco remains unbothered. The disparity both confuses and irritates; it’s a persistent vexation she can’t shake.

“You’re just so…accepting of all this. I don’t understand. This isn’t normal, Draco. People discuss huge financial matters they don’t—don’t just— ”

 

in these silent days4

She pauses, unwilling to let panic consume her for the second time in one day. “I don’t understand you at all. This isn’t right, what we are…what we’ve been ordered to be. And you go on about your life as if this hasn’t affected you at all. Why aren’t you angry?”

Why am I alone in this?

He sighs and settles on the sofa, as if he’s been expecting this meltdown from her. It’s maddening the way she can’t even provoke him into a row over this. Frustrating impotence bludgeons her in a way it hasn’t since the war.

“I suppose,” he says, palms rubbing up and down his thighs, “when you are raised with the expectation that marriage is not with someone you choose, your perspective differs from the average person.”

Hermione sinks into the armchair opposite him. “You were always comfortable marrying a stranger?”

“Not necessarily. I merely see marriage as a practical arrangement. You have the entirety of the relationship to then become better acquainted.”

“Yes, but you’re already married at that point.”

“There would have been the courtship period as well.”

“What would that have entailed?”

“Horribly dull supervised dinners, a promenade here and there and, uh,” he coughs and looks away, “flowers, of course.”

She’s never been one to shy away from blunt questions, and doesn’t start now. “Why are you so determined for—this—to work?”

“Having my magic decide for me is the closest I’ll ever get to a real choice.”

“So says the Ministry.”

“No, so says our magic.” Now there’s a harshness to his voice. While he may have let go of many past beliefs, the bitterness in his words now suggests this isn’t one of them.

“Don’t you think blind acceptance has gotten our world into trouble before?”

“Trust me, Granger, I’m not blind to a thing when it comes to you,” he says wryly.

Later, their conversation replays in her mind and makes her unbearably sad for him. Was this the best he could have hoped for? Was this all he’d ever been expecting from his marriage? The pureblood way seemed to be to hope for civility with your selected spouse and see if that would eventually blossom into anything more. 

But if he’s so determined for this to work then why hasn’t he put more effort into befriending her?

 

Hermione’s birthday bouquet has wilted significantly since Draco bought them. Before they can die, before she even remembers to toss them, new, fresh flowers take their place. A sunny array of daffodils greet her one morning, brightening the otherwise empty foyer.

According to the text, these flowers mean hope and new beginnings.

 

 

“Mr. Rochet!”

Hermione calls out to a white-haired wizard a little ways down the corridor. The court session ends precisely on time—no need to keep the members through their lunch, obviously—and her patient stake-out of the courtrooms pays off. 

He turns and smiles genially as she approaches. “Hello, my dear. And it’s Samuel, please.”

“Of course, how are you?”

"Just fine, just fine,” he says. He waits with a patient, fatherly smile for Hermione to state her reason for being down on this level. 

“An interesting session just now?” she asks instead.

“Horribly dull, in fact.” He leans in conspiratorially. “We’re considering stocking a different brand of breakroom tea.”

Hermione laughs, though isn’t sure if he’s joking. From her earliest days in her Ministry career, she could always count on Rochet as an ally within the Courts. Like any seasoned, comfortable bureaucrat, he enjoys the occasional joke at the Ministry’s expense, but has yet to retire from the very institution he so willingly mocks. 

“Well, it does please me to hear it was nothing as invigorating as another forced marriage act,” Hermione says, testing the waters. 

He frowns as if she’s said something crude. He lays a hand on her arm, a sympathetic expression softens his eyes. “How are you holding up, my dear?”

“Not well,” she says grimly. “Every single one of my official appeals contesting the match have been denied. In fact,” she takes a fortifying breath, “that’s why I’ve come to see you.”

“Ah,” says Rochet as he removes his touch. 

“You were such a great help with my previous werewolf legislation.”

That warms him a bit. Hermione knows he’s also a gentleman susceptible to the occasional flattering comment. 

“Of course. As you know, my nephew, through no fault of his own you understand, was bitten.”

“Yes, and thank you for your assistance with that legislation.” Hermione swallows the rant she wants to unleash, but she knows berating a sitting Court member for only caring about an issue when it personally affects him will get her nowhere. 

“You’ve got another draft in the works, haven’t you? Something about children and Wolfsbane?”

“Yes,” Hermione says in surprise. “Did Lawson tell you?”

“Yes, we frequent the same gentleman’s club, Old Twaddle-Dickies. Had a few brandies the other night and he mentioned your latest focus.”

She cannot help it this time. “I see. A lot of impromptu policy discussions happening at this exclusive establishment?” 

He frowns again and Hermione stuffs down yet another pithy comment about how that particular club only allowed witches as members beginning in 1980. Non-pureblood membership began in 1984.

She tries for a contrite smile to placate the older man. “I’m sorry, Samuel, that was presumptuous of me.” It isn’t, she thinks, but Hermione needs this relationship to remain somewhat friendly. 

“I could really use your help and expertise,” Hermione adds, trying for a charming tone. 

Rochet brightens immediately. “How may I be of service, dear? Are you about to submit your new proposal?”

“No it’s, um, not to do with the Wolfsbane measure. It’s the Marriage Act. As I’ve said, all of my appeals have been denied.”

“Yes, you did say.” He waits for her to continue. They’re both playing a game here and not only has Rochet played it longer, he also holds all the power. 

“I know you voted against it, and I can’t tell you how deeply I appreciate your support. I could use your support again.”

“How can I help?”

“You’re such a venerated member of the Court. If you were to perhaps sign my Marriage Dissolution Request,” she pulls the parchment from her satchel and holds it out for him, “then I’m sure my request would be granted.”

Rochet does not take the form. He leans in close to her. “Are you all right, Hermione?”

“I’m perfectly well, thank you.”

“He hasn’t—that is to say your husband—hasn’t done anything…untoward?”

“Oh!” She feels her cheeks flame. “No, not at all.”

“Hasn’t gotten rough with you?” He runs his gaze along her bare forearms, as if checking for bruises or wounds. 

“No,” she says firmly. “He’s fine, a perfect gentleman.”

“Then I fail to see how the marriage could be dissolved.”

“On the grounds that I don’t want it. I don’t want to be married to him.”

“Yes, well, be that as it may, the dissolution clause prior to the mandatory three years being up is only for the most extreme cases.”

“My case is extreme,” says Hermione through gritted teeth, “seeing as the marriage is non-consensual.”

Rochet recoils from her, as if she’s shouted a disturbing curse word. 

“I may not have supported the Act, this is true,” he affirms and straightens his robes importantly, “but it is now the law, and we all must obey the law regardless of our personal feelings.”

“But this law doesn’t even affect you!” she cries, uncorking the stopper on her emotions. “Forgive me, Samuel, but you’re well outside the age range and the younger generation is being made to suffer this complete abuse of Ministry power.”

He steps close to her again, looking worried. “Hermione, you really cannot afford to be saying such things.” Rochet glances up and down the hall, but they are alone. “Your last werewolf measure only just passed. And from what Lawson confided, I’m not so sure you’ll have an easy time of it with your next proposal.”

“What makes you say that?” Chilling fear grips her, the cold Dementor’s touch of trepidation.

He shifts his weight, coughs. Hermione senses the incoming bad news even before he speaks. 

“You haven’t exactly made yourself popular with the current administration with your very public stances against the Minister and his policies.”

“Policies that violate my autonomy.”

Rochet winces and holds up a placating palm. “Please, take my advice as someone who does care about your career prospects. Do this simple sacrifice for your world, show them you can be a team player. You put in these three years with Mr. Malfoy and then I think you’ll find the Courts more accepting of your—ah—ideals.”

“Simple sacrifice,” she repeats hollowly. Her rage foments the unrest within, and she’s now an uncontainable riot made human. 

“Are you aware, Mr. Rochet, of my war experience?”

“Of course, dear, everyone knows your and Mr. Potter’s story.”

“No, not just what I’ve done in tandem with Harry. My own personal war experience. Of how I was put on a Muggleborn Registry by this very Ministry and listed as a fugitive from the law. How I camped in a tent for months on the run while trying to bring down Voldemort.” 

Rochet flinches predictably at the name and it spurs Hermione to further fury. 

“How I almost died on the drawing room floor of Malfoy Manor. How I was tortured at the hands of Bellatrix Lestrange. How I suffered Crucio after Crucio and when that wasn’t enough, she carved me up with a knife. Where was my Ministry then? The same place I come to work for each and every day despite having bled and cried and endured for this world. Don’t you dare try to lecture me about sacrifice. I’ve done enough.”

He steps away from her with a pitying shake of his head, unmoved by her passionate plea. “The law is the law. Good day, Mrs. Granger-Malfoy.”

His retreating back is an inviting target for any number of curses, but Hermione resists. Gone are the days when she can intimidate someone with her magical prowess and get away with it. She can’t charm “sneak” across this man’s face, nor have him running from a flock of vengeful canaries. 

And anyway, her bold truth spoken aloud has already done the job of severing the alliance. 

 

Restlessness plagues her. The kind that is generous with energy, injecting her with a vigor that has no direction. She can’t do much else on the Wolfsbane project until she hears back from Miriam, she’s finished with the tedious paperwork for everything else on her plate, and she has no current recourse for ending her marriage. 

If Hermione doesn’t find something, anything, to distract her, she’s going to go insane and possibly reorganize her books. Again. Last week she alphabetized by title, but the way this evening is going these books are in grave danger of being re-shelved by cover color. 

A noise from across the hall makes her start. She knows Draco is in his study because that’s where he always is after they’ve shared a stilted dinner. But she never hears a sound from behind the door. Could this mean he finally brought a cursed object here to undo?

Her curious thoughts become curious actions as Hermione walks over and raps on the door a few times. 

She hears him cough and a shuffling noise. “Come in.”

“Hello. Everything all right in here?”

He’s standing behind his desk, wand still in his hand. “Yes, of course, why do you ask?”

Hermione raises an eyebrow at his unconvincing deflection. “I heard noises. I never hear noises when you’re in here. Are you working on something?”

She sweeps her gaze down to his desk and sees an unopened gift box. “You are! What have you got there?” Hermione approaches eagerly.

“Nothing. It’s nothing. I told you, I perform all my curse breaking and analysis at the Manor.”

Hermione rips her stare from the box. “So you’ve said, but you could work here.”

“I’d rather not.”

“It is your home.”

“Yes, and I prefer to keep it as safe an environment as possible. I’d rather not bring anything…Dark here.”

“But your parents’ home is suitable for work?”

Draco tugs at his collar. “The Manor is hundreds’ of years old and thus reaps the benefits of many ancient protective wards and ley lines. Should anything dangerous escape the confines of my wing it can be better contained. Here,” he gestures around the modest room, “my newer wards are no match.”

Hermione takes out her wand and taps her chin a few times. “I could help strengthen them for you. We could make this room impervious to—”

“Why are you so determined to have me bring my work here?”

“It’s only a suggestion. Don’t you think it’s a bit weird to have to work out of your old family home every day? I’m sure between the two of us we could adequately prepare this room for you.”

Draco’s eyes narrow in suspicion. “Ah, I see. You want to know exactly what I’m working on.”

“Well, of course,” Hermione says, confused by his iciness, “I’ve come across my share of cursed artefacts and I’d be happy to offer a second opinion if you ever needed.”

“Why? Do you suspect some Dark motive from me?”

“What? No, of course not!”

“I think you’re lying,” he says with a sneer.

Hermione crosses her arms across her chest. “Please, you’re being immature.”

“I’m being immature? You’re the one snooping at my door.”

“Good lord, do you even hear how ridiculous and egocentric you sound right now? I’m not spying on you. Why wouldn’t you want my help?”

“Because it wouldn’t be help, it would be a giant ego-wank for you to instruct me. Spare me the ‘infallible Hermione Granger with motives so pure’ act. I don’t need you butting into my career just so you can show off.”

The accusation hurts more than it should at her age. But it’s a malicious claim she’s heard often, too often, her entire life. 

She’s twelve again with her hand in the air, the correct answer on her tongue, and no friends by her side. The comments come in snide whispers, loud enough for her to hear, but not enough to disrupt class. 

Annoying. Know-it-all. Swot. Brown-noser. Teacher’s pet.

Show-off.

Except she’s no longer twelve and has since developed enough confidence to tell off yet another disappointing person intimidated by her intellect. 

“I feel sorry for you,” she says quietly, though it’s laced with venom. “I’m sorry that you have such little faith in humanity that you can’t recognize a genuine offer for what it is. Have a good night.”

Hermione hasn’t even made it over the threshold when he calls out: “Granger, wait. Please.”

She should keep walking. Across the hall to her study and slam the door in his pointy face. Or better yet, out to the Floo to go anywhere but here. 

His tone stops her, as does his use of the word “please.” A word she doesn’t think exists in Draco’s vocabulary unless it precedes a sardonic sentence like, “Please, as if someone of my pedigree doesn’t know how to properly saddle an Abraxan.”

But it’s the softer tone—the one he used at the wedding—that catches her ear and freezes her steps. Hermione turns around.

“I actually could use your help with this,” he says and gestures at the gift box. “This package arrived today addressed only to me. A wedding gift, supposedly.”

“Any idea who sent it?”

“George Weasley, according to the tag.”

As she rounds the desk, she can read the card attached to the thick, green silk ribbon: “To the luckiest of ferrets, best wishes on surviving marriage. Fraternal tidings, George Weasley.”

Hermione sighs. “I should have expected something like this. I’ll admit, it’s months later than I anticipated, so bully for George for catching me unawares this time.”

“I’ve done all my normal curse checks and…nothing. But as I recall he’s more clever than people like to credit him for and since you know him better…”

Draco trails off, eyeing the box with healthy suspicion. 

“George does know an unfortunate number of ways to conceal certain charms that would otherwise not pass a standard inspection,” Hermione mutters as she charms the ribbon away. She leaves the box intact for now, murmuring her own detection spells before she dares to remove whatever might be containing what is surely something mocking at best, but at worst might well ignite the room or curse the opener.

He allows her a few moments of peace to work it out before he clears his throat. 

“About earlier.”

“You mean two minutes ago?” 

“Temporal experiences are highly personal and subjective.”

Hermione snorts. “Yes, time is relative, you pretentious git.”

“The breadth of what I do is…rare. It’s a skillset I cultivated all on my own. It’s part social savvy, market theory, historical knowledge, and practical and experimental applications of magic.”

“I’ve never known you to deny your own specialness.”

She looks up briefly to see her remark has landed. Draco is scowling and leaning against a bookshelf, all sharp angles reeking of disdain.

“And I’ve never known you to be so unforgiving in the face of a sincere apology.”

“An apology requires some sort of ownership of blame and, at the bare minimum, the words, ‘I’m sorry.’”

“I apologize,” he begins and Hermione rolls her eyes and returns to her work. “What I was trying to explain was that I’ve made use of my skills in a unique and lucrative way and I got defensive when you offered to step in. It’s been some time since someone has questioned my qualifications.”

“That wasn't my intention. I really just wanted to help. I think what you do is fascinating, actually, and I wanted to know more.”

“You do?”

Hermione looks up again, mid-incantation, at the confusing note of incredulous hope in his voice. 

Before she can reply, the box’s sides fall open, startling both of them. 

“Bugger, that git had it on a timer all along!” Hermione moves away and throws up a quick Shield Charm and feels Draco just behind her. 

When nothing else happens, she dismisses the Shield and slowly approaches the box. It’s not exactly what she expects and yet, somehow, exactly what she should have expected. 

“George Weasley, I swear to Merlin I am writing to your mother tomorrow,” she grouses. Draco steps around her and stares down at the gift. 

“Is that…?”

“A diorama, yes.”

“And is that…?”

“A ferret puppet wearing a blond wig, yes.”

It’s a scene inside a castle. A little doll clearly modeled on Hermione sits smiling in a library. The puppets spring to life: Hermione’s effigy gathers books while the ferret scurries her way. Every time the ferret reaches Hermione, it explodes in a spectacular and gruesome fashion. Not only does it make a squeaky bang, but two new ferrets pop up in its place. Soon the diorama is overrun with chittering blond creatures.

Which would all be fine and quite funny if these multiplying, mini ferret puppets didn’t then pop out of their confines and run rampant around the room. 

Hermione immediately starts shrieking “Evanesco!” but that succeeds in tripling them. Draco at least has the wherewithal to shut the door to prevent any escapees into the rest of the flat.  

She tries a Freezing Charm. They move faster. 

Draco goes for a controlled Blasting Hex. The ferrets form a middle finger in the center of the rug. 

A “Finite!” from both of them causes half the ferrets to bounce and the other half to skip about. 

Hermione lowers her wand resignedly. “This is so crude, but I think it’s the only way.” 

Hermione corners an animated ferret and stomps on it, causing it to disappear in a little puff of white smoke. She lifts her foot to show a wide-eyed Draco. “See? Nothing there. It’s just a clever overlay of a Multiplication Jinx with a Mirage Charm. Most wizards wouldn’t think of a non-magical solution.”

“This is extremely undignified,” Draco says with a frown as he steps on two at once. The study fills with the sounds of stamping feet and dissipating mini clouds. The ridiculousness doesn’t hit her until she catches sight of Draco. 

Seeing a grown man in an expensive suit perform a jerky sort of tap-dance to trample upon a legion of escaped puppets with all the gravity of curing a fatal disease causes her to lose it. 

She hides a titter behind her hand, but his reserved demeanor only heightens her laughter. It bursts out of her and Draco whirls around.

“Something funny?”

“You—it’s—you—you’re so—proper all the time and—this is—so silly—and—” She slumps against the desk, overcome and breathless as he glares.

“You’re one to talk.”

“Oh—no—it’s—both—the pair of us—we must look positively—mad,” she chokes out and steps on three in quick succession. “Come off it,” she says, wiping tears away, “you don’t think this is just the tiniest bit funny?”

Draco sighs and turns away, re-committing to their task of ridding his study of pretend vermin. Hermione shrugs off his ill-humor and returns to their task. But after a few minutes she hears a quiet, “This is the most ridiculous thing. Stupid…blasted…things.”

He looks over his shoulder and catches her eye. The faintest of grins ghosts his lips. Hermione offers a tentative smile in return. 

A few minutes later and Draco points to the final offender. “The lady should do the honors.”

Hermione performs the last stamp and looks back up, face flushed with exertion and a wide smile splitting her mouth. Draco’s cheeks are pink too; an attractive blush colors his pale face. 

“Well,” he says wryly, “not my preferred method for curse-breaking.”

“Admit it, you had a little bit of fun just now.”

He only raises one eyebrow in response. 

“I will say I appreciate the assistance.”

“I’ll take care of the Howler for George.”

“I’d feel sorry for him if my sympathy well hadn’t run dry due to a faux infestation we were lucky and skilled enough to quell.”

She huffs a laugh. He does, too. 

They’re standing on opposite sides of the room with plenty of distance between them. Yet Hermione feels the space shrink though neither of them moves. His chest rises and falls, as does hers. For a few minutes they’d worked together. Allies. Harmonious collaborators on the same team with a common goal. It’s a first for them. She wonders how he feels about this, if his brain has catalogued this new milestone. 

Hermione swallows any probing questions. Draco is neither friend nor confidant and she does not know how to navigate the charged stillness between them now.

“I’ll see you…later,” she says and he nods. 

“Later” means in bed. The bed they still share. She has yet to shake up this part of the routine and once again stuffs down any internal analysis over it. It’s a comfortable, huge bed and it allows her to sleep soundly despite another’s presence. 

Her brain buzzes with more questions and theories about the man with whom she shares a living space and a temporary life. But no answers arrive from her mind’s echo chamber. 

She does find hydrangeas in the foyer two days later. 

Gratitude for being understood.

Notes:

So there's a chapter count now*
*author reserves the right to be glaringly, humiliatingly, publicly wrong about this chapter count.

Thank you bgonemydear, my comma queen extraordinaire. Thank you smozark for your pre-reading <3

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.
Chapter 5: Chapter 5

Notes:

TRIGGER WARNING for this chapter: there is a brief mention of sexual assault in one of Hermione's thoughts about the marriage law (no characters in this story experience SA).
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
Saturday evenings are what Hermione refers to—mentally—as “free evenings.”

Every Saturday night, Draco dines with his parents then visits with his friends. From the very start, Draco has invited her along:

“I’m off to the Manor for dinner with my parents,” he always announces. “Would you like to join us?”

The first time he asks, she flatly declines. She has every time since. 

Then Draco will follow up with: “I’ll be visiting friends after. I suppose I’ll see you later.”

She waves him off and uses these “free evenings” to go spend time with her own friends. Hermione neither knows nor cares what Draco gets up to or who he sees. All she knows is he never stays out much later than her, apparating back not two minutes after her every time. 

Hermione divvies her time between her friends’ places. Sometimes they go to Harry and Ginny’s if they can’t find a sitter. Or to Ron and Luna’s cottage. Neville and Hannah’s home. The Burrow. Rarely, they’ll wind up at a lesser-known pub or try for a night out in the Muggle world. But Hermione’s press paranoia hardly lets her unwind on these outings and she prefers nights in instead. 

The looming dread of what the papers would print if she were photographed out on the town without her husband increases as the weeks pass. She wonders how much longer they can delay a public appearance together.  

Because this—whatever it is they have—is generally working. A peaceful détente in his home, the nosiness from colleagues has dissipated, and since her friends have visited the flat a few times, their angry protests at the arrangement have dimmed, too.

Draco is a background, peripheral player in her daily life, but Hermione knows she’s only one curious reporter away from losing this status quo.

Draco himself hasn’t seemed keen to change up their dynamic either. Grateful for the space he gives her, Hermione now softens her Malfoy Manor refusals. Though, on this particular day, her conscience decides to add a twinge of guilt, too.  

“Would you like to join us?”

“Thank you for the invitation, but no. I’m off to Harry and Ginny’s for dinner.”

And instead of his next usual, scripted response, Draco pauses after fastening his cloak. “I would never make you attend. But you are always welcome.”

“Even with my blood?” Her question isn’t a rude one, in her opinion, but a practical one. 

“You are my wife and you are welcome wherever I go.”

He doesn’t wait for a reply, but apparates away after such a statement. A walloping Bludger of a pronouncement. 

Until that moment, he’s felt like an amiable flatmate. A platonic bed partner.

But in the eyes of the law and the general public, she is his wife. Draco’s parting words mangle her concentration for the rest of the night. Distraction rules over her during conversations with friends, as she absently holds baby James, as she picks at dinner and barely touches her wine. 

Luna is the only one to notice as Hermione takes an early leave. 

“Are you feeling alright?”

“Just work stuff,” Hermione says and gives her a brief hug. 

“No nargles?”

“No, Luna. Nargle-free for now.”

Luna holds her gaze for a long, truth-seeking moment. “You are especially resistant to their influence. But that doesn’t mean they don’t affect you from time to time.”

After the requisite two minutes of being alone in the flat have passed, Draco appears. 

“Hello, how was your evening?” she calls out from her spot on the sofa. 

“Fine, thank you.” If he’s surprised by her question, he doesn’t show it, and continues down the hall. 

“Who do you see? After your parents?” she asks. 

Draco stops and half-turns. “My friends.”

“Your friends being…?”

“I imagine you remember most of them from Hogwarts. Theo Nott and his wife Astoria Greengrass. Goyle and his wife Millicent Bulstrode. Pansy. Blaise usually comes round but he’s off in Italy for a few weeks with his wife, Celine. Daphne Greengrass used to join, but since Theo won’t stop taking the piss about Cormac, she refuses nowadays.”

“And were they all…Ministry matches?”

“None, actually. Well, besides Daphne which I’m sure you knew.”

“Ugh.”

“Indeed.”

Hermione tucks her knees up on the cushion and rests her arms atop them. “Were they all…their own choice? Romantically?”

Draco succumbs to her interrogation by way of settling into an armchair. 

“Not all. Theo and Astoria have been dancing around each other for years, so the match deadline was the final push they needed, I think.”

“That’s sweet. In a sense.”

“They are disgustingly happy,” he asserts but with a fond glint in his eyes. “Goyle and Millie were friends before and wanted to avoid being paired with a…with someone who might not be so forgiving of their respective pasts.”

“Is that a euphemistic phrase for ‘non-pureblood?’”

“No,” he says with a hard look, as if she’s just proved his point. “And Blaise and Celine were already married. She attended Beauxbatons, I can already see the question screaming from your brain.”

Hermione sends him a withering look. “And who had the misfortune of being assigned Pansy Parkinson as a spouse?”

Draco frowns. “You mean you don’t know?”

“I wouldn’t have asked you if I did.”

“Pansy took the wand ban.”

With that, he leaves her to contemplate this puzzling revelation on her own. 

 

The grace bestowed by the public for being a fresh newlywed has now run out. Ministry peers she’s never spoken to find excuses to pop by her office just so they can get in the “And how is your husband?” question. 

She’s approached even in the canteen during lunches with Harry; people she barely considers acquaintances wanting to know about married life with Draco and whether they’ll be attending this gala or that soiree. 

Because Hermione only ever offers a curt, “We will not,” it ignites the whisper campaign.

Hermione Granger isn’t happy with her marriage. 

Well, of course not, you remember all the whinging she did when it was announced.

God, she always was insufferable.

It’s not like she was assigned someone horrific, that Draco Malfoy is quite handsome and wealthy to boot.

Honestly, what right does she have to complain about anything? 

Ungrateful is what it is.  

Hermione keeps her head high and doesn’t let idle gossip ruin her days until it finally seeps into her own work. For the first time since she started at the Ministry, she’s not asked to join the Mermish liaison task force. 

When she braves asking her department head about the exclusion, he gives her a paternal smile.

“Ah, well, I know you just have so much on your plate as of late. We’ve asked Sophie to step in this year. She’s a real team player, you see, and we think she’ll be a good addition to the project.”

Sophie Whittaker doesn’t have two brain cells to rub together but she does have a well-publicized joyous marriage to her Ministry match: Adrian Pucey.  

Hermione tries not to let panic cloud her senses, tries to see this as a positive. She’ll have more time to reply to the concerns Miriam relayed from other werewolf parents. This will let her focus on her legislative draft, but she can’t dismiss the feeling that her career is, once again, stalled. 

She’s bitterly ruminating over her job prospects one morning when Draco interrupts her gloomy thoughts. 

“I’ve been meaning to ask you something.”

“Yes?”

“I haven’t been abroad in quite some time for work. By choice, but all the same. I need to put some face time in with current and prospective clients.”

“How can I help?”

“Iris Zhao is holding a benefit gala for the Wizarding History Museum and I would like it if you accompanied me that evening.”

“Will there be press?”

“Just outside, it’s a private event.”

Hermione taps her wedding band against the counter a few times, seeing no logical reason to refuse him. She’ll help him with work and their picture will no doubt grace the front page. 

Hopefully this will remind everyone that she can “do her part”, that she can put aside her “difficult personality” for the greater good.

That she can smile and preen from within her shiny, glass prison. All while planning a coup.

 

The alexandrite in her ring takes on a more purple hue against her amethyst dress robes. Hermione smooths them down once more, checking for stray threads, wonky beading, anything off in the detailing. 

The woman in the mirror is elegant, poised. Inside, her nerves writhe, wriggling self-doubt into her veins. She can dress the part all she likes, but the fact remains: she is the interloper tonight. 

It doesn’t help that she finds the very picture of confident refinery waiting for her in the sitting room. Hermione wonders if his cloistered, posh upbringing included classes on “how to wear dress robes so well and yet appear bored by the fact, but handsomely so,” or if he’s just a natural. 

Draco is examining an envelope as she approaches, eyes scanning what she assumes is the invite. 

“This is supposedly the Portkey, and we have a few minutes yet before—”

He cuts off as his eyes lift to see her. Hermione fidgets under his gaze and tucks an escaped curl behind her ear. 

“Before?”

“Sorry?”

“You said we have a few minutes ‘before,’” she prompts. 

“Right. Before it activates.”

They take turns glancing away, adjusting clothes that need no adjusting at this point. 

“Any tips so I don’t embarrass you?” Hermione asks. 

“You’ll be fine.” He holds out the envelope. “Shall we?”

They reappear in front of a massive estate and Draco offers his arm. 

“I will say this,” he says as she takes hold of his elbow, “Madame Zhao used to be head curator of the museum. For a few decades, actually. Now she holds an annual benefit for them, but it’s also an excuse to show off her private collection. Let me know if anything catches your eye, I can request a private viewing.”

“And the crowd tonight…you’ll be courting for clients?”

“No,” Draco says with a smirk, “they’ll be courting me.”

A flashbulb goes off and Hermione clutches Draco’s arm more tightly than she intends. Neither of them say a word to each other or to the screamed questions from the press. She tries to fix a demure smile on her face, but worries she most likely looks constipated instead. 

Once inside a grand foyer with other guests, she discreetly lets out a whooshing breath, but this trying night has only just begun. 

And there’s one thing Hermione hasn’t accounted for: navigating a crowded room as a couple requires a lot of casual touching. 

Her arm through Draco’s as he steers them. A squeeze to her elbow if he wants her to turn. A large hand on her lower back as he guides them towards the bar. Shoulders brushing as they stand close to order drinks. His breath in her ear as he gives her a heads up for who they’ll be speaking with next. It doesn’t bother her, per se, but the strangeness of it all strikes her in every instance. 

As Hermione does not know anyone here, she waits for Draco to make introductions each time. 

“Hello, good to see you again,” he says and shakes a hand or two then gestures to Hermione. 

“This is my wife, Hermione.” He says it with confidence and a touch of pride. 

It throws her into a memory of attending the 1994 World Cup. Of the way Draco’s father spoke of his own family. How Lucius had performed the same glad-hand routine with Ministry officials and dignitaries, showing off Narcissa and Draco as if they were acquired trophies as opposed to people important to him. 

The reactions of the others make it worse for her. They throw her knowing winks and jubilant smiles, so pleased at last to meet the “elusive Mrs. Malfoy.” She is nothing more than an adornment, a party accessory.

When some are so bold as to congratulate Draco on the marriage, she feels sick to her stomach. They aren’t blushing newlyweds making their public debut. They are a government-mandated couple, nothing romantic or natural about it. 

Hermione has precious little to contribute to the conversations, but it is a chance to observe Draco in his element. He is his father, but sanded down in all the right ways. He’s confidence devoid of arrogance. He’s brief smiles that don’t curl into sneers. Haughtiness earned through a hard-won reputation rather than fear. And based on the deference shown to him by many, he possesses the requisite social capital to be able to exit or enter any conversation he chooses. 

He’s…charming. 

The revelation is almost frightening and Hermione peers around the room for a distraction. She finds brief entertainment in observing their host for the evening. Madame Zhao is dressed in glimmering, iridescent robes that, when she spreads her arms wide to greet guests, make her appear like a shiny, giant butterfly. 

But it’s the guest Madame Zhao greets next that makes her blood run cold. Minister Lance is in attendance tonight. 

She squeezes Draco’s arm to get his attention. “I’m just going to find the washroom, be back in a minute.”

If he reacts at all, she has no idea, nor does she care. Hermione takes a circuitous path through and then around the crowded hall, making sure to keep the Minister in her sights. All along the outer rim of the room, Zhao has some of her most prized artefacts displayed. Hermione wanders past small clusters of people admiring ancient wands, broken vases, restored tiaras, and even what appears to be a taxidermied dodo bird. 

Floating baskets drift lazily around all, a convenient way for guests to drop a few Galleons here and there throughout the evening. As Hermione winds her way around the various displays, half hidden by others and the large marble columns ringing the space, she keeps watch of her target. Her patience is rewarded when after a time, Lance and his entourage drift down a more secluded corridor that promises a glimpse of some of Merlin’s belongings. 

She loses sight of Lance briefly around a corner and increases her pace to catch up. When she turns the corner, she’s thrown briefly to find him alone. Hands clasped and head bowed, he appears to be admiring an ivory staff. 

Hermione steadies her breathing and calls out, “Minister Lance.”

The older man turns, but before either he or Hermione can utter another word, she’s swarmed by three hulking Aurors. She reaches for her wand immediately, but a firm voice says, “Stand down, please. Wait at the end of the hall.”

The Aurors leave on Minister Lance’s order as he faces her head on. Hermione has never seen him in-person before. He’s taller than his pictures in the Prophet suggest, with piercing blue eyes and wavy salt-and-pepper hair. He wears his advanced age with sophistication, as opposed to others in his generation now resorting to poorly-disguised Glamour Charms. 

“I hope you’re enjoying your evening, Mrs. Granger-Malfoy.”

“Hermione, please.”

“Hermione,” he repeats with a smile that makes her skin crawl. “I understand you’ve wanted my attention for quite some time now. Not to mention your not-so-subtle attempts at stalking me this evening.”

“I was not stalking you,” Hermione says, fighting to keep her voice even, “I was simply hoping for an opportunity to speak with you privately.”

Lance tilts his head to the side, amused by her assertion. “Regarding?”

“The Marriage Act, of course. Why push this law?”

Instead of answering her, Lance turns and looks at the staff on display. 

“We are fortunate, are we not? To be of a group, a culture, that wields such ancient power. Does it not thrill you to know magic runs in your veins?”

“Of course it does,” she says shortly. 

“And here,” he gestures to Merlin’s staff, “we can see how our culture began, how it has evolved. How hard we’ve had to work to preserve it.” Lance faces her now. “Would you be in favor of destroying something maintained for centuries when we have a solution for progressing?”

“My version of progress differs wildly from yours, I’m afraid,” says Hermione. 

“Ah, yes,” he says and his smile turns nasty, “equality for beasts and beings and the like. Tell me, girl, of the fanciful ideas you’ve had the gall to pass off as legitimate legislation, which of these would actually increase the wizarding population?”

“Better an equitable society for all magical beings than your preferred, ‘pure’ vision,” Hermione fires back. “And you forget, Minister, the Marriage Act does not include any consummation or conception clauses.”

“No, it does not, that is true,” he concedes. “But I’ll let you in on the greatest tool of all politicians,” he leans forward and Hermione takes an instinctual step back, “public opinion is not only fickle, but easily swayed. Societal pressure to procreate is rather intense, I hear.”

“You underestimate people.”

“Do I? Those same people who refused to believe your friend Potter for years, who let He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named stroll back into power with barely a lift of his wand?”

She will not be baited. She will not be distracted. 

“The public appreciated the changes made by Kingsley and his administration. Because of his work, we feel safe again, happy.”

“Yes, the public is happy now, content. Complacent. Back to trusting their government. Kingsley did a fine job, he did what was necessary,” he gives an approving nod, “but now people want to move on.”

“Of course people are eager to move on, but they also want the freedom to choose how they live their lives.”

“No, you silly girl, haven’t you been paying attention? People want to be told what to do, they want direction. They want to go about their days without an original thought in their heads because it is easier. Our last war wasn’t long ago, but it was long enough for people to forget. They want smiling young families and the promise of a magical future.”

“And forcing people to marry against their will is supposed to do this, how?”

“Showing people, especially your generation, how to belong, that there is a right way to do things.” He takes a swift step forward. She takes one back. There’s not much room for her to go between her body and the wall. “You Muggleborns don’t understand the gift you’ve been given, the opportunity.” His eyes take on a manic gleam and his hands come up suddenly to hold her by the shoulders. 

“Let go of me.”

“So my advice to you,” his grip tightens painfully, “is to stop poisoning your own well if you have any desire to make it out of your inconsequential role in a laughingstock of a department. You want free Wolfsbane for bitten children? I’ll be honest, I couldn’t care less. What I do care about is some uppity, mildly-famous Muggleborn running her mouth and trying to rabble-rouse.”

“I said, let go of me.”

She’s just gotten her wand out of her robes when another voice calls out: “There you are!” 

The Minister releases her as Draco strides up, a winsome smile on his face that does not reach his eyes. 

“I thought you might have gotten lost, but I see now you’re in good hands. Good evening, Minister Lance,” Draco says smoothly and holds out his hand. 

“Good evening, Mr. Malfoy. I do apologize for keeping your wife preoccupied.”

Draco breaks the handshake and pulls Hermione gently to his side. “Not at all. While I apologize for interrupting what appears to be an illuminating discussion, dinner is about to be served.”

“And our hostess would be quite put out if we weren’t seated.” Lance steps back and surveys them. “My word, but you do make a beautiful couple. Enjoy the party, Mrs. Granger-Malfoy.”

Draco tugs her into a brisk pace, forcing Hermione to swallow any parting shot she might have made. 

“I had that well in hand,” Hermione hisses. 

Draco scoffs. “Not even Head Auror Potter could save your hide if you had cursed the Minister for Magic, don’t be foolish.”

“Standing against tyranny is never foolish.”

“No, but your methods are. There’s a better approach than brute force.”

Their argument is cut short as they reach their table and Draco holds out Hermione’s chair. She sits stiffly and doesn’t thank him or look at him as he takes his place beside her. 

She pretends to enjoy the food on her plate. She fakes a smile or two. She plays along as a few people inquire about her career.

Pretend, fake, play along. That’s all she’s meant to do.

You don’t belong. 

That’s what the Horcrux told her when she had to wear Slytherin’s locket. That’s what the man sitting to her right told her when they were children. That’s what the current head of their government told her not moments ago.  

Hermione looks around at her tablemates, then at the gathering at large of the uber wealthy. The scenery blurs, but the little voice grows louder.

You don’t belong here. 

Tightness is the predominant sensation—her robes, her hair, her skin, all compress and weigh on her, constricting movement and breath and thought. 

With glazed eyes, she spies her half-empty water glass. It takes all of her concentration to reach forward, grip the glass, and take measured sips of water. But Hermione finishes it too quickly and now she has nothing else to calm her. 

Everything around her is too loud and too bright. Blame apportions itself along both her shoulders and she is cloaked in smothering self-remonstrance. 

Why are you here? How did you let yourself come to this? 

Tears prick and her eyes fall to her lap. It is nonsensical to want to cry, but she has no way of stopping the stress response. Her skin still burns and tingles, and the loneliness of her situation slams against her nerves. Hermione tries to find the logic in this reaction and, when she cannot, the panic only heightens. 

What options does she even have? She clutches the tops of her legs, unsure if she might want or need her wand. But what she wants and needs is to be somewhere else. With her friends, with her parents. With people who know her and love her.

A hand slides into her view, resting on the edge of her chair and just grazing her robes. His fingers don’t touch her leg and Hermione stares down at the shining sapphire winking in the chandelier lights. Her birthstone: a deep, dark, perfect blue. 

Draco leans in close and she tries to focus on him, on his proximity and how in this situation, in this moment, he is her familiar, grounding element. He is the closest thing to safety. When he taps his fingers a few times near hers then strokes them along the fabric, she meets his gaze.

Is that genuine concern on his face? She’s not sure she knows how that looks on him. Grey eyes rake over her face, his lips turn down in a frown. It could be disappointment, but when his brow furrows she wonders if this is authentic care or if Draco is only pantomiming.  

“Are you feeling alright?” he whispers.

“Lightheaded, I think.”

“Let’s get you home.”

As before when he said “wife,” “home” is another word he says without hesitation that hits her like a brick. 

Through the buzzing in her ears, she hears Draco offer a few vague excuses to their table, then he holds out his hand as he stands. She does not have the strength to refuse him. 

After stepping through the Floo, the flat’s sanctuary helps only a little. When she catches her reflection in the hall mirror, Hermione sees an ashen-faced woman and the room spins again. 

Another face joins hers in the mirror. 

“Are you ill?” Everything about him—his expression, tone, tentative stance as if he’s caught between approaching her and staying far enough away—connotes worry. For her. 

“No, I’m…just tired is all. It’s been a strange night.”

He nods as if he understands and Hermione turns away, unable to stomach whatever this dynamic has become. 

Permanent concepts like “wife” and “home” flit about her brain, choices she hasn’t made at all. As she shucks her robes in the privacy of the bathroom, Hermione thinks of the three-year dissolution form in her bedside drawer. Already with her signature inked on it.

It’s a far-off escape and until these years are up, she is trapped. 

 

Draco at least sleeps like the dead. She hasn’t once woken up to him on her side of the bed, no part of them ever touched. 

Per usual, he is asleep before her, his breathing deep and even. Hermione lies awake, staring at the ceiling and replaying the evening’s events and searching for the trigger. Was she more rattled by her tête-à-tête with Minister Lance than she realized? 

Could it have been that a part of her believes he’s right? Was the public really so desperate to make things right again post-Voldemort that they’d let this abominable law go into effect without any thought or care to how this would affect Hermione’s generation? 

She’d truly thought she’d had them for a minute. After Harry had delivered her speech to the Wizengamot and gotten the “consummation or incarceration” facet struck out, Hermione believed people would rally behind her. That their lawmakers had even considered what amounted to government-sanctioned rape should have frightened far more people. 

But no, Lance and his press-savvy ways had been a few steps ahead. This isn’t government overreach or a breach of privacy, no, no, no. This is a government that cares, that listens. It knows what’s best for you and don’t you all want stability again? And where does stability begin? Why, at home of course. Young people marrying is something to be celebrated, so why don’t they all just shut their mouths and perform this short service for their Ministry. Don’t they want to even try? What kind of person is against a magically-compatible marriage anyway?

And she couldn’t stop it. 

The Golden Girl has lost her luster. A moniker—one she hadn’t asked for—that used to open doors for her is now a silly and often mocking title printed before her name. 

Hermione drifts into a fitful sleep, her body finally exhausted from trying to work out where she went wrong or whether her efforts have ever mattered at all. 

 

There’s an amorphous weight on her chest, a shapeless thing crushing her, suffocating her. She cannot escape the heaviness and it drags her further and further down into a dark, fathomless abyss. Hermione struggles for air; her limbs thrash, desperate for freedom, for a way out. If she thrashes and writhes hard enough she can break free of these invisible bonds, and yet her body does not want to surface from the depths. No light, just nothingness and choking fear surround her.

“Hey…hey, Granger.” 

A gentle voice accompanies a gentle touch. There’s a warm hand on her shoulder and another one brushing hair off her sticky forehead. 

The voice is firmer now. “Come on now, Granger.” A squeeze to her shoulder. 

“Hermione, you just have to wake up. Hermione.”

She latches onto that soft voice, an aural climbing rope in absence of a physical one. Hermione’s eyes snap open to find Draco hovering above her. He takes his hands back immediately. 

“Nightmare?” he asks.

“Did I scream?”

“No. Sort of twitching and crying. Then you were kicking out and tangled in the sheets.”

Hermione feels the mixture of tears and sweat running down her face and sits up gingerly. Seeing her soaked pillow causes fresh tears to well up and she throws her legs over the edge of the bed. 

“Sorry for waking you.” She dries her eyes with the heels of her hands, mortified and meek.

“It’s fine. There’s a few vials of Dreamless Sleep in my medicine cabinet if you need one,” Draco says. 

“Thank you,” she manages through a clogged throat. 

Another horrifying reflection greets her in the bathroom. She looks pale. Diminished. A wan imitation of a formerly fierce young woman. Hermione loathes this woman: from her damp pajama collar, to her unruly hair, to her red-rimmed eyes. This woman can’t even handle a simple night terror. 

Hermione downs half a vial and returns to bed with the remainder. Draco is still sitting up, following her every move as she readjusts herself back down. 

“Need anything else?”

Hermione shakes her head and feels the potion flowing through her veins, the drowsiness taking hold. She downs the remaining potion and blurts out a question before she can stop herself. “How come you seem to always get a good night’s rest?”

“I find Occlumency a very handy skill for falling asleep.”

“You practice every night?”

“Yes. Have for years,” he says and then he slides down on his side, facing her. 

“I had thought,” he begins, then checks to see that she’s still awake, “it might be easier to adjust to our situation if we shared things. Meals, a bed. If that’s not what you want…perhaps I can transfigure the couch into something comfortable.”

She can see what he’s driving at: forced proximity to engender goodwill at least. But she also wonders if Draco has ever heard the phrase “familiarity breeds contempt.”

“None of this is what I want,” Hermione slurs before her eyes close and sleep claims her. 

in these silent days5

Notes:

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Cheers to almighty comma empress bgonemydear for betaing.

You can find me on: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 6: Chapter 6

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
For the first time since they’ve lived together, Hermione is alone in the bed come morning. Her bedside clock tells her she’s slept in for about two hours past her normal time. 

She finds Draco in the kitchen, already dressed and halfway through breakfast. 

“Good morning. Feeling better?”

Hermione grunts an acknowledgment that she is indeed alive and makes a beeline for the kettle. There’s also a half-full skillet of eggs and bacon which she assumes he left for her. This assumption cancels out her former one that Draco has no idea how to cook. 

When she joins him at the table, he slides the Prophet over. “I’ll save you the trouble and tell you our picture is on page eight.”

Hermione scowls and flips there instantly. She hopes to see a picture of her and Draco arm and arm entering the gala. Yet this picture is from much later in the evening and taken inside the party itself. 

“I thought you said no photographers would be inside.”

“It’s Zhao’s usual policy,” says Draco. “But I think the Minister’s presence may have swayed her otherwise.”

The photo is of their heads bent together. To anyone who did not know that Hermione was in the midst of a silent panic attack, it would seem the pair were having an intimate, private conversation. What makes it all the worse, other than the press trying to spin this as a romantic moment between two newlywed lovers, is a vile quote from the Minister himself. 

…unfortunately, the pair left in rather a hurry before the dessert course could be served. Many party-goers wondered about the swift exit, but it seems our very own Minister may have the answer for why Mrs. Granger-Malfoy might have felt ill. 

“I had the pleasure of speaking at length with Mrs. Granger-Malfoy during the party,” says the Minister. “And let me say, her joyous demeanor and glowing skin could mean some very exciting news is on the horizon. But I wouldn’t want to speculate or congratulate the happy couple too soon.”

Could it be true? Will we see a new Malfoy heir in but a few months’ time? 

Hermione tosses the paper aside, disgusted. 

“They fear you,” Draco says. “That’s all this is.”

Something about his calm assertion sets her off and she rounds on him. 

“Why did you bring me to the party last night?”

“You said you were interested in what I do.”

“Well, yes. But I really was hoping you’d let me observe your curse breaking some time.”

“Everything I’m working on in that regard is at the Manor. And before you ask, no, I cannot safely move any of those artefacts here at this time. I told you at the outset, I needed to put in an appearance to garner and keep clientele.”

“And you needed your silent, obedient trophy wife at your side to do this?”

“No, the public part was for your benefit. I thought it might quell some of the gossip mongers about our solitude. That was quid pro quo to stave off all the curious questions I’d have gotten from my clients about why I haven’t been abroad. And further—”

His placid demeanor finally cracks and he glares at her. “When did I once tell you to be silent or obedient? You act how you like, Granger; Merlin knows you’d put up a fuss if anyone tried to tell you what to do. If you kept yourself out of conversations last night, it’s nothing to do with me. You’re a grown woman; I assume you’ve been out in society before. Forgive me for believing you could handle yourself in social situations without my explicit instruction.”

Every angry retort sounds childish in her mind. Because what had Draco done last night? He’d removed her from a potentially dangerous situation with the Minister, whisked her back here the second he noticed her panic attack, woke her from a night terror and provided the appropriate relief. 

Man of few words he may be, Draco’s actions spoke volumes for his character, both publicly and privately. 

She could trust him.

The realization deflates her and Hermione swallows pride to replace it with gratitude.

“Thank you, by the way. For last night, after I…for waking me up.”

“Did the potion help?”

“Yes.”

“Glad to hear it,” he says and stalks off. 

Draco spends his day shut in his study doing God knows what.

Hermione spends her day on Floo calls with her friends, reassuring them that no, she is absolutely not pregnant. When she tells Ron about her run-in with Lance, he calls her “barmy,” with awe in his voice while Harry calls her “brave.”

Sometimes, that’s all she needs.

She sends off another appeal to the Office of Matrimonial Affairs.

 

She doesn’t owe Draco an explanation, she knows this. But it doesn’t stop Hermione from awkwardly hovering in the bathroom doorway after she’s brushed her teeth. 

“I’ll be on the sofa tonight,” she says and, for some reason, cannot even meet his eyes. “I think that’s best.”

“Okay.”

“Well, um. Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.”

The transfigured bed is comfortable-ish. Comfortable enough, she supposes. But it is not at all what she’s become used to, which is the sensation of sleeping on a damn cloud. Everything is wrong in here: the cushions are too hard, the bed faces a different direction, the darkness seems more oppressive.

And the silence. The rhythmic, predictable white noise of Draco’s breathing is missing. There’s no warm body inches away. Not that she had ever felt that body, physically, but a certain heat does radiate from another person’s presence in a bed.

She’s just having trouble falling asleep, that’s all this is. 

Except, she has to work tomorrow; she can’t have a bad night’s rest. Plus, she’ll need to be sharp when interacting with any of her colleagues actively feeding the rumor mill about her. No need to give them more ammunition by appearing to be in the sickest part of a first trimester. 

There’s nothing else for it. 

Hermione throws off the blankets and tiptoes down the hall to the bedroom. She abhors the indignity of sneaking back into this bed in the middle of the night, and prays that Draco is still asleep. 

She’s lucky in that regard. Momentarily, anyway. 

The second her weight dips the mattress, Draco bolts upright, causing Hermione to jump back in alarm. Not only because he’s suddenly awake, but because the sheets have slid down to his waist. His bare waist. He’s sleeping shirtless. Possibly more than shirtless, but the sheets hide everything else from view.

Not that she’s looking for more, per se, just that from his naked chest alone there’s plenty to see. Faded pink scars bisect pale skin from a taut collarbone to a trim torso. All that skin she’s never seen before—from throat to shoulders to corded forearms—always covered in expensive fabric, now fully on display. 

Tousled, moon-bright hair ghosts his forehead, and even ruffled from sleep it looks gala-ready. And touchable too, inviting enough that her fingers twitch at her sides at the thought of stroking it. 

While she stands there mute and ogling, Draco blinks blearily in surprise, then releases a pleased little hum, rolls over, and goes back to sleep. 

Hermione slips into bed and deliberately faces away from him. It’s just the novelty of seeing him that way, she rationalizes, and nothing more. 

 

When Hermione opens her eyes in the morning, she’s greeted with the sight of Draco’s back muscles as he sits on the edge of the bed and stretches his arms high overhead. 

He whips his head around and catches her admiring—no, not admiring, rather, just looking in an objective and harmless way—and has the audacity to smirk. 

“Good morning,” he says and saunters into the bathroom.

Hermione slinks beneath the covers to hide her reddened face. At least he had the decency to wear pajama bottoms for his little strut across the bedroom. 

He takes far longer in the shower than she thinks is necessary for someone with hair that short. There’s a retort on her tongue when he finally exits the bathroom, but she’s reduced to a prissy huff when Draco bestows a knowing grin. 

He caught her looking and he knows it. Well, he can smirk and prance and preen all he likes, she thinks, as she angrily shampoos her hair, scrubbing with more vigor than usual. It’s not like she’s going to admit to it, so he can float about on a cloud of self-entitlement if it pleases him. 

She really should have showered before him, the arrogant prat. Because now the pre-steamed shower stall smells like all his pleasantly-scented products. Hermione’s no novice to close proximity with men, but Ron was more the type of male to use one ratty bar of soap for literally all of his hygiene needs. 

Rubbing and touching along her own body is also unfortunately heightening sensations she’s dulled for quite a long time now. Gods, when was the last time she had an orgasm? 

Her hands drop to her sides in despair. Since before she moved in here, for sure. Months. She’s let herself go months without any thought to her own sexual needs. 

That could explain why the mere sight of Draco’s chest had her feeling all sorts of…things. Objective things because—fine—he is attractive and near and it has been so long. So miserably long. 

Hermione knows she still has a bit of time before work. There’s no reason she can’t satisfy an urge; a sorely needed indulgence if she’s experiencing shivers from just stroking her own neck. 

She definitely does not use the extra few minutes in the shower thinking about taut abdomens, or broad shoulders, or slim hips, or grey eyes…

It feels so wrong until it doesn’t. All in all, her existential crisis about her masturbatory motivation lasts roughly forty-five seconds before she’s coming on her fingers and granting the release she’s denied her body for a stupid amount of time. 

No more denying needs, Hermione decides as she towels off and dresses for work. Just that blip of self-care and she feels ready to tackle her overflowing in-tray at the office. 

Her relaxed demeanor is unfortunately temporary. A Ministry memo arrives a few hours into her morning informing her latest marriage match appeal is denied, citing the possibility of a pregnancy. If she’d like to take a pregnancy test and submit the results, the office cannot guarantee anything of course, but having up-to-date fertility information could help her case. 

Hermione balls up the parchment and squeezes so hard a drip of magic accidentally bursts from her fingers and singes it. Furious at her loss of control, she silences the office, transfigures the paper into glass and chucks it against the wall. 

Like her climax this morning, the satisfaction of breaking apart is but a fleeting feeling. 

 

Hermione is a staunch opponent to procrastination in all forms. Usually. 

She faces unpleasant tasks head on and doesn’t let perceived effort level or time investment deter her. Normally. 

But she neglects telling her parents about her recent marital situation until her mother asks Hermione if she plans to come to Australia for Christmas. Now the time has come to divulge the behemoth secret she’s hid for months. 

It does not go well. 

Her mother bursts into tears and immediately asks Hermione if she’s pregnant. While Hermione tries in vain to calm her mother and insist, “No, Mum—Mum—I’m fine, no, it’s not that. Mum, I’m fine, we eloped and I…I’m sorry.”

Her father has to commandeer the phone and the interrogation as her mother can’t seem to form coherent words. Hermione has her string of canned answers prepared, but she didn’t plan for how they’d taste coming out of her mouth. Lies are acidic and they burn her from tooth to toe. 

“I’m sorry, Dad…Mum…it was sudden.”

“I’ve known him since school.”

“Yes, he’s a wizard. Draco Malfoy. No, you’ve never met him.”

“Yes, we live together. No, I’m not pregnant.”

“A few months.”

“Yes, of course I want you to meet him.”

“Yes, he wants to spend time with you, too.”

“It’d be great to see you over Christmas. Of course you can come see the flat.”

“Mum, are you okay? No, I’m not pregnant.”

“Are you sure? You could stay here with me—us—if you wanted. Okay, will you call me back when Mum’s feeling better? Love you, too.”

She hangs up and stares at the mobile screen. Disappointing her parents isn’t something she does often, but she could sense it in her dad’s even tone. If her mother hadn’t devolved into hysterics, Hermione knows she would have been in for a lengthier question session. They’ll need time to process the news, but at least she could see them over the holidays. 

Now to inform the other half of this charade. 

Hermione knocks on his study door and receives the requisite monotone: “Come in.”

“My parents are coming back for Christmas,” Hermione states without preamble.

“Are we hosting them?”

“No. They’ll be at my aunt’s it sounds like. But we’ll need to spend some time with them. Dinners, outings, Christmas…things. If you’re not busy. And don’t mind.”

“I don’t mind.”

“In that case, we need a cover story for—this.” She gestures a hand between them. “How we met, why we got married, that sort of thing. I don’t want them to know about the law.”

Draco leans back in his chair and looks down his nose at her. “You seem like you already have an explanation in mind.”

“We met at a café. You stole my table.”

Draco wrinkles his nose. “First, it would be the other way round and second, absolutely not.”

“Fine. We ran into each other at a bookshop.”

“Be serious.”

“Um, a gala.”

“Which one?”

“The ah—the—uh.”

“You’re rubbish at this.”

“You have a go then.”

Draco tips forward and leans on his elbows. “Alumni event at Hogwarts. We were seated at the same table for dinner. The event was boring, there was far too much hero worship of Potter. I made a remark that made you laugh. We decided the hall was too stuffy and the crowd too full of themselves so we escaped out onto the grounds together. We walked around the Black Lake and talked for hours.”

Hermione drags one of his chairs up to the desk and plops down. “That’s…acceptable. But how did we go from—that—to married?”

“I seduced you with my rare book collection. You insisted you kept dropping by to see the books, but I saw right through you.”

Hermione takes the words “I seduced you” and locks them in a box in a corner of her mind and then mentally Incendios it.

“And why elope so fast?”

“We knew our friends would object and with your fame, we’d been discreet about the relationship. But we had both declared early on that we’d never felt like this for anyone else before.”

Hermione leans forward too, resting her weight on her elbows. “So we get caught up in a whirlwind romance and you just propose and I accept.”

“Well, it was a very convincing proposal.”

“Tell me.”

He shifts further over the desk. “You were mid-tirade. Work, per usual, wasn’t recognizing your brilliance and you were nattering on about the injustice faced by werewolf children and their limited educational prospects due to Wolfsbane cost. You cut yourself off when you caught me staring at you and said, ‘What, Malfoy?’ and I said, ‘Marry me, Granger.’”

“And I just…said yes?”

“No.”

“No?”

“No. Of course not. You said, ‘Be serious, Draco, I’m trying to tell you about an urgent and pervasive societal problem,’ and I said, ‘I’m aware, darling, and I’m telling you I’d like to listen to you for the rest of our lives, so let’s get married.’”

When did his face get so close? Why is she on the edge of her chair? 

Hermione clears her throat and stands. “Sufficient enough, I think. Thank you for accommodating my wishes with regards to my parents.”

She leaves without waiting for a reply. 

The next morning’s shower features, “I seduced you,” blaring through her brain as her fingers circle her clit. 

Her first task at work is filing an official complaint regarding the memo asking for pregnancy confirmation/denial. Then she spies a shard of glass on the floor and remembers what she did with the entirety of the evidence. 

 

Robert and Helen Granger have dealt with several momentous, life-upending ordeals where it concerns their only child: the whole magic thing, Hermione fighting in a war, being Obliviated and sent to Australia, and having the enchantment lifted and deciding to remain in Australia, to name a few. 

But apparently, Hermione’s mother has reached her limit with a secret, quickie marriage. 

It takes three phone calls before Helen can ask Hermione about her new husband without bursting into tears. 

“Tell me about Draco,” Helen says, still with a tremulous note in her voice. 

“What do you want to know?”

“Well, what is he like?”

“He’s um, posh. Tall. Blond.”

“What does he do for a living?”

“He works with cursed artefacts.”

“Smart?”

“Yes.”

“What about his parents?”

“His father is retired.” From being in a murder cult. “And his mother didn’t, um, work.” Because she was murder cult adjacent and also they have wealth beyond measure. 

“Oh, so she’s a homemaker like Ron’s mum? Molly? She was always nice to take you in for summers.”  

“Um, yes! But please don’t ask Draco about his father. They don’t exactly…get on.” 

She thinks. As Draco never mentions his parents, Hermione only hopes to spare any questions about Lucius merely on principle. 

“Because of you?”

“No, their…difficulties pre-date me. His mother is lovely though.” Hermione hasn’t had any contact since the friendly cheek kisses at the wedding and has no idea of Narcissa’s current character.

“Your father and I are looking forward to getting to know him better,” says her mother and a knot of dread settles low in Hermione’s stomach.

 

Hermione expects the first meeting and dinner to be supremely awkward. And it is, just not for the reasons she anticipates.

Draco puts on his best well-bred gentlemanly airs—a handshake for her father, a hand kiss for her mother—and pulls out Hermione’s chair for her. Helen catches Hermione’s eye and shoots her an impressed look. So that’s her mother won over. 

Which is all excellent in Hermione’s opinion, and recommends Draco from the start. And it’s not that she expected him to be mute throughout the meal and let Hermione do the explaining and the lying, but she didn’t expect him to be so…verbose. 

He asks polite questions about dentistry. He asks about her parents’ time in Australia. He patiently sits through the slew of photos Helen brought from a recent walkabout they did. 

Draco handles the conversation and personal questions with grace and affability. He’s still a proper little prat about it all, but not once does Hermione feel as if he’s speaking down to her parents. 

No, what Hermione classifies as awkward are all the little ways Draco signifies to her parents that they are a true married couple. First, he helps her out of her jacket, then the aforementioned chair pulling, but he further sells it with his arm slung along the back of her chair in between courses. He dutifully refills her wine glass each time it gets too low. He even offers her a bite from his own dinner, which she declines, because she does not think they need to be one of those couples who feed each other in public. 

Especially since they are not a real couple by any stretch of the imagination. 

Draco also insists on paying the bill. And that’s her father won over.

After they say their goodbyes and apparate back to the flat, Draco turns to her. 

“Was I all right?”

“Brilliant, actually.”

“Good.”

He seems pleased with her approval and it causes a flurry of questions to flare up inside her. 

Why did you bother? Why do you care? What does any of this mean to you?

Afraid of any and all answers, Hermione asks none of them.  

 

Not even halfway into her Great Aunt Gertie’s Christmas Eve do and doesn’t Draco just have all the old biddies wrapped around his finger. He’s masquerading as a Muggle jewelry appraiser and they all want him to assess their engagement rings and wedding bands and tell them if their husbands are cheap bastards or not.

She lets the geriatric swarming and fawning go on for almost an hour before rescuing him with a trip to the makeshift bar for eggnog. 

“Even in the Muggle world it appears you’d make a killing,” she says with a smirk.

“I don’t know,” he drawls, “I think some of the menfolk here won’t be too pleased I’ve outed their attempts to pass off costume pieces for custom.”

“We’re the youngest here by about thirty years, I like your odds in a fight.”

Draco chuckles then takes a sip of the eggnog. He almost chokes and places it down as if it offended him. “Why?” he says to the drink. 

Hermione laughs and wiggles her left hand in his face. “So, what’s mine worth?”

“Hmm,” Draco says and takes her hand. “Solid gold band, that alone is a good number of Galleons.” He runs his finger over the stone. “Sizeable alexandrite with no visible impurities. Custom cut.”

He releases her hand but keeps her gaze. “One of a kind. Priceless.”

in these silent days6

Hermione knocks back her entire glass, regrets it instantly, but at least now she has an alternate excuse for her flushed face and racing pulse. 

“We can probably leave now, I’ll find my parents.”

Her tipsy mother has Draco by the coat lapels as she wishes him a happy Christmas and yammers away about every letter Hermione sent Santa Claus as a child.

Meanwhile, Robert takes Hermione off to the side for a quiet chat. 

“He’s a fine young man. I’m not…well, I’m not exactly keen on the rushed nature of all this but…if you’re happy, darling…”

Hermione can only nod and pull her dad in for a hug. Hiding her face against his shoulder makes it easier to sell the lie. 

“Thank you for accepting him.” 

Only two more holiday seasons of this farce. Hermione steps away and buttons her coat.

“You said he doesn’t get on with his father?” he asks in a whisper.

“It’s complicated.”

“I remember him. Draco’s father. From the wizarding bookstore. The one Arthur Weasley brawled with, right?”

“Ah. Yes, that’s him.”

“Maybe it’s for the best then. If Draco is different from him.”

“S’pose so.”

Hermione watches Draco accept yet another tight hug from her mother and he only looks slightly uncomfortable, no disgust detected. 

“Ohhh, your first Christmas together,” Helen enthuses as she then embraces Hermione. “I remember those days,” she adds with a twinkle in her eye and a fond look at Robert. 

“Mmm, yes dear, and it seems now as it was then, that you still can’t hold your mulled wine.”

“Oh, hush you,” Helen playfully swats at her husband. “Here, dear,” she then says, thrusting a cake tin at Hermione. “Gertie says it’s not Christmas without her famous fruit cake.”

She accepts it graciously, knowing if she wants to keep all her teeth, she’ll either use the cake as a doorstop or just toss it. 

More hugs from Helen and cheery goodbyes from the rest of the gathering and they’re finally free of Granger Christmas familial obligations.

“Thank you,” Hermione says when they reappear in the flat. “My parents like you, I think.”

“You’re close with them,” he observes. 

“Yes. I’m lucky in that regard.”

“Yet you wouldn’t have them know the truth about us?”

“It’s…easier. They worry about me enough and this would be just another thing they don’t understand about my world.” 

“Ah, yes. The only-child tendency to spare our parents. I’m familiar.”

They share bitter smiles. 

Hermione holds up the fruit cake. “Want any of this?”

“Gods, no.”

She laughs and vanishes it. “How about tea with a dash of spiced rum?”

“Go on then.”

When she returns with two steaming cups to the sitting room, she finds a roaring fire in the grate and Draco on the sofa. She hands him a cup and settles next to him. Not close enough that they’d be at risk for physical contact, but not so far as to be sitting on opposite ends either. 

A companionable silence reigns. The quiet Christmas sounds of a merrily crackling fire, the warm cinnamon notes from the tea, and the light burn from the rum has Hermione feeling cozy and festive. 

Hermione lets her head fall against the back cushion then turns to face Draco. “How are you so good at that?”

“At what?”

“Charming people you don’t like.”

“I liked your family.”

“No, I suppose I meant…charming people you’ve only just met. Who probably have negative preconceptions of you.”

“Practice. And besides…charmed you, didn’t I?”

His lips form a boyish grin and she has no witty rejoinder, her mouth opening and closing like a Confunded goldfish. Her gaze flicks back to the fire.

“Do your parents have the Manor decorated?”

“Lavishly so. A tree for every room. Caroling portraits. Garland draped round every ancestral bust.”

Hermione snorts. “What a ridiculous image.” She looks around their sitting room, devoid of any holiday cheer. “This is the first year I haven’t decorated.”

“You could have.”

She shrugs. “Next year, maybe.”

A shadow of what she wants to say is hope passes over Draco’s face, but he masks it so quickly that she can’t be sure his expression changed at all. 

Hermione puts her empty cup on the table and smooths down her hair. 

“I got you something. For Christmas.”

“If it’s one of those hideous Weasley jumpers, I’m chucking it in the fire.”

“No, you snob.” She raises her wand and summons a wrapped present from her study. “Here.”

She expects him to tear off the ribbon and paper like an overexcited child. But Draco carefully unties the ribbon, sets it aside, then hooks one long finger into a corner of the wrappings, delicately popping one corner open then another. A book slides into his lap: Modern Methodology in Curse-Breaking, Vol. 3. 

He looks down at it for a long while, one side of his mouth twitching up. 

“Thank you. This isn’t even supposed to be in stores until after the New Year.”

“I know,” she says smugly. “I owled the publisher and asked for an advance copy.”

He flips to the table of contents and Hermione hides a laugh as he loses himself to reading for a few minutes. 

She allows him a bit of time appreciating the text—lord knows she’s been guilty of this exact behavior in the past—before she pipes up.

“More tea?”

Draco jolts, closes the book, and sits up straight. “Ah, no. But also—” His turn to hand her a summoned gift. 

It’s of book shape and weight, but she’s surprised when she rips the wrapping off. He’s gifted her an ornate box filled with luxury, eagle-feather quills. 

“Oh, they’re beautiful. Thank you.”

“Those are special quills, by the way. They have an anti-chew charm built in. Perfect for someone such as yourself.”

“Excuse you, I do not chew the ends of my quills!”

“Half of yours are so gnawed they’re practically nubs.”

“Are not!”

“Accio!”

Damning evidence from within her study comes zooming into his open hand. He holds the mangled quills out for inspection.

“Nubs. Your parents would be appalled.”

She takes them from him with a scowl and tosses them into the fire. He shakes his head with a wry grin then cracks open his new book again. 

Hermione fiddles with a new quill and just watches him for a bit. Everything about this entire evening has felt so domestic, preternaturally natural in a way she’s not sure how to process. She hates to interrupt him now when he looks so studious and enraptured by her gift, but a question fights its way out of her. 

“Why do you think we were matched? Not that I believe the ‘magical compatibility’ tripe, mind you.”

He marks his place then gives her his full attention. “We have a lot in common if you think about it. Cleverness, ambition, loyalty. Stubbornness.”

“That’s all rather subjective. And shouldn’t that make us too similar? Wouldn’t you want pairs to complement one another?”

“Perhaps. I think our differences lie more in how we each act upon those traits. But at our cores, we share and value those characteristics.”

“Hmm. I suppose.”

“Truthfully,” he says as he stands, “I think it’s because we’re both too insufferable to stick with anyone else.”

It startles a loud, shocked laugh from her. The laugh gathers steam until she’s almost bent double, clutching her stomach. No laughter comes from him, but there’s amusement dancing in his eyes—a palpable satisfaction that she enjoys his joke. 

“I’m off to bed.”

“I think I’ll join you,” she says with a yawn. 

Yawning had been a fake out, apparently. Hermione lies awake for a while, shifting this way and that, trying to settle down. Giddiness born of ingrained Christmas morning anticipation is hard to shake.

Eventually her restlessness inspires Draco to inquire, “Can’t sleep?”

“It’s Christmas Eve. It’s sort of…I don’t know, magical.”

She hears a derisive snort and jumps to a defense, “Oh, come on, don’t you remember how exciting it used to be?”

“I suppose.”

“What’s your favorite Christmas gift you’ve ever gotten?”

“You first.”

“Fine. I was six and it was Doctor Diane, the Dental Doll. She came with her own chair, tools, everything. I was going to take over my parents’ practice, you see. I took that doll everywhere with me. We gave playground lectures about oral health and how to floss.”

“I—wow.”

“I know. I had all my other dolls and toys as patients at home. Diane and I had a thriving referral system in place for orthodontics and pediatrics. And we were ruthless about any missed appointments. Your turn.”

She hears him cough and feels the bed shift.

“I wasn’t allowed to have pets. But when I was eight, there was a mobile, model dragon underneath the tree. He was about the size of a crup and could fly a few feet off the ground. He’d fly after me all throughout the Manor, the grounds…everywhere. At night, he’d curl up at the end of my bed.”

“What did you name him?”

“Hephaestus.”

“Oh my God, you were the most pretentious child.”

“Says the witch who just confessed to setting up a health care bureaucracy in her playroom.”

Hermione lets out a groaning laugh. “Fair. And what happened to Hephaestus? Did the magic wear off or did you just grow out of playing with him?”

“Neither. My father got rid of him the summer after my Fourth Year.”

Silence falls and then both fall asleep. 

Hermione spends Christmas day at the Burrow, Draco at the Manor. 

As she opens gifts from friends and family, her mind can’t help but drift to a young boy being cruelly forced to put away childish things.

Notes:

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Thank you to bgonemydear for your impeccable advice and beta work per usual <3

You can find me on: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 7: Chapter 7

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione has a theory. To test said theory, she switches up the time she arrives home after work each day. Ten past six. Half past five. Five past seven. Then she watches the kitchen clock. Unfailingly, at the two minute mark, Draco Apparates into the front hall. 

After a full week of this exact pattern she confronts Draco. “Do you have a ward alert on your wand for when I arrive home?”

“Yes.”

“Why?”

“So we can eat dinner together.”

When he says these matter-of-fact statements, as if his motives are obvious, Hermione never has a reply ready. She appreciates the overtures at civility, or friendship, she supposes, but what her brain trips over is the intent behind them. 

“Is that what your family was like growing up?”

“Yes. It was important to my parents.”

“Ah.”

“And speaking of my parents…well, my mother, actually, is aware that I’ve now met your parents on several occasions.”

Hermione sits at the table and wrings her hands. She should have seen this coming. “I’ve put you in a difficult position, haven’t I?”

Draco sighs and sits across from her. Hermione senses a negotiation is imminent. 

“I said I’d never make you go. But I have been asked, begged, to have you reconsider by my mother.”

“Oh.”

Before she can gain a proper foothold on her feelings over that revelation, Draco rubs the back of his neck sheepishly.

“There’s more. I haven’t been entirely honest with you.” 

From inside his jacket pocket he pulls out a bundle of letters and slides them over to Hermione. Neatly tied together with a string is what appears to be several dozen pieces of correspondence addressed to her. 

“You’ve been intercepting my mail?” Her voice almost reaches a screech and now her memory races to recall if she’s missed anything important recently. Has he kept crucial Ministry notices from her? 

“Not your mail. Well, yes, your mail, but only these letters. My mother has been writing to you.”

“You had no right,” Hermione scolds and immediately tears open the top one. Her eyes whizz across the parchment filled with the neatest quillmanship she’s ever had the pleasure of reading. Narcissa has written a personal invitation for Hermione to join them at the Manor for New Year’s Eve. Which was a few weeks ago. 

Hermione glares at Draco and rips open the next one. “Why?”

“Why has she written to you?”

“No, you prat, that’s quite obvious.” Hermione waves an open letter in his face, this one an invitation to a luncheon. Each successive letter has more invitations, entreaties to spend time with her. Teas, shopping trips, dinners, etc. There’s even a letter from months ago asking to trade book recommendations. 

“Why did you feel it was your right to keep these from me?”

“She wouldn’t let me read them in advance and I hadn’t a clue why she wanted to write to you so badly. I thought I might spare you from anything…potentially offensive.”

“Yes, I’m not sure how my delicate psyche would have handled this,” she turns the letter around so he can read it, “offer to accompany her on a garden tour at the Shafiq Estate.”

“My family and you don’t exactly have the best history, can you blame me for being cautious here?”

“If you’ve learned anything about me, then you should know I don’t appreciate having others decide what’s best for me. You withheld information from me.”

“I apologize,” he says through gritted teeth. Draco glares down at the table, fingers tracing an abstract pattern on its surface. 

“This was ridiculous and unnecessary.”

“I know. My mother also made her displeasure quite plain.”

“Did she hex you?”

“No, but I think she heavily considered that route.”

Hermione reads through a few more politely-worded pleas for her time and attention. She notes the careful details Narcissa works in, phrases like, “My husband is unfortunately detained that day,” or “Lucius will be unable to join us.”

Easy enough to figure out how the Malfoy patriarch still feels about Hermione’s presence. 

“Your mother seems quite determined to get to know me. And I suppose I can no longer be so rude as to refuse her.”

“You weren’t rude,” Draco says quickly. “You don’t owe her anything.”

“Do you want me to come to dinner with you this weekend?”

“Only if you want to and you have no prior engagement.”

“Not what I asked you.”

“Yes.”

“Then I will. And,” Hermione stands and walks determinedly to her study, “I’ll be writing to your mother myself to tell her so.”

 

Curiosity holds her mind hostage all week in the lead up to dinner at Malfoy Manor. Will Narcissa be as welcoming as her letters? How does this more mature, thoughtful version of Draco act around his parents? Will anything trigger unwanted memories of torture or imprisonment? Given what happened to her there years ago, her recollection of the house itself is hazy at best. 

But as she clasps a set of cerulean robes, Hermione is surprised to experience a sense of calm. 

The same cannot be said for Draco. Pacing in front of the fireplace, he gives her a sort of jerky nod in greeting. “Good, you’re ready, you look nice. My parents will greet us immediately, I’m sure, and then the adjoining room is where we’ll dine.”

She’s never seen him so flustered. He’s almost babbling. “And we’ll Floo in so we don’t have to go through the front entrance. The dining room is in the West wing and faces the back of the estate and—”

She can see what he’s trying to do and the kindness surprises her. 

“—my mother will insist on after-dinner tea in the adjacent parlour where she’ll no doubt give you an unwanted history on every décor choice. I promise we won’t leave those rooms, unless you’re dead set on seeing the library, but that’s in—”

“Draco. I’ll be fine. It’s only dinner at your family’s home.”

“Right, of course.” Her reassurance only has him looking slightly less troubled. “I must warn you, don’t expect my father to—”

“I expect nothing from your father. Nor do I fear him.”

“Well, don’t expect him to say anything at all tonight. I don’t want you to feel slighted if he pretends you don’t exist.”

“Better to be ignored than openly hexed,” Hermione mutters. 

Before they go through the Floo, Draco puts a hand on her arm. 

“If at any time you feel the way you did at the Museum gala, we’ll come back home.” 

In the face of such sincerity for her well-being, all Hermione can do is nod. 

Her blonde, statuesque in-laws are the first thing Hermione sees once she spins out of the Floo. A portrait of wealth—of wizarding aristocracy—in their fine, black silk robes, they would appear somber but for the lush, decorative elements covering the entire room behind them. This room at least is warm in tone, creams and dark browns, though made stuffy by all the lavish accoutrements of gilded furniture, wall-sized tapestries, and countless busts and vases.

“Hermione, welcome.” Narcissa glides towards her, clasps both her hands and brushes kisses to each cheek.

“Thank you for having me, Mrs. Malfoy.”

“Narcissa, please.”

Hermione swallows her pride, at least three jinxes, and two insults as she addresses Lucius. “Good evening, Mr. Malfoy.”

He merely inclines his head at her and finds a way to make “Miss Granger,” sound like a slur. 

Beside her, Hermione feels Draco tense and sees Narcissa’s nostrils flare. 

“Shall we go through?” she says and gestures for Hermione and Draco to walk ahead. Both men pull out chairs for their wives then take seats across from them. It’s a smaller table than Hermione expects, and she wonders if this might not be their usual eating place. She suspects Draco requested they keep out of a certain part of the house entirely. 

They’re served by elves and Hermione bites her tongue other than to offer a quiet “thank you,” each time she receives food or drink. These elves at least look in better health than the way Harry described Dobby during his servitude to this family. She feels Lucius’ disdainful eyes on her each time an elf appears, as if daring her to say something. 

Narcissa makes small talk about the meal, filling in the silence with idle chatter about each dish and asking how Hermione enjoys it. Hermione is content to keep everything surface level tonight, but doesn’t Narcissa go and surprise her. 

“Draco tells us you’re working on monumental legislation for Wolfsbane?”

Across the way, she clocks an eye roll from Lucius. 

“I wouldn’t call it ‘monumental,’” demurs Hermione, still reeling from the question being asked.

“But Draco says it’s very important,” Narcissa enthuses. “You must enjoy being in a position where you can enact such wide-reaching change. It’s for children, is that right?”

“Oh, ah, yes. For children bitten during the war. I mean, for all affected children, really, it’s just we’ve seen a surge in werewolf numbers from that time period. Providing those families with safe access to Wolfsbane will ensure they can attend Hogwarts if they wish.”

Lucius snaps his fingers for more wine. 

“How noble,” says Narcissa and Hermione is sixty percent sure it’s a genuine statement. “I see Draco did not exaggerate when he spoke of your impressive career ambitions.”

She beams at her son. “Do you have any trips coming up for work?”

Lucius makes a derisive sound that the entire table collectively pretends never happened. 

“No, I haven’t gone abroad since the wedding,” says Draco. 

“It’s so nice to have him home all the time, isn’t it, Hermione?”

“I’m sure Draco is pleased to see you so often,” Hermione says. “Though he must miss the traveling, what with all the places he’s been; it seems like an exciting career.”

Lucius snorts into his wine glass again. Hermione ignored the first instance, but she can no longer let this slide.

She addresses Lucius directly. “Do you not approve of your son’s career? He’s very good at what he does.”

“I’m sure he is,” says Lucius carelessly. “Draco has many talents. If only he applied them somewhere useful, like perhaps at the Ministry.”

Draco shifts in his seat, posture stiffening. “Are your usual lapdogs no longer up to snuff, Father?”

“Having well-placed connections within our government has always served this family well.”

“Oh, has it?” Draco sneers. “Tell me, Father, have you had your Apparition license reinstated yet?”

Lucius’s lip curls and Hermione holds her breath, anticipating cutting cruelty. 

“Enough,” says Narcissa. “We have a guest and you two would do well to remember how to behave at the dinner table.”

“But Miss Granger is no mere guest, my dear,” drawls Lucius. “She’s family now. We wouldn’t want her to have any false impressions. She should be aware of exactly who she married.”

“I said, enough, Lucius.”

Narcissa’s tone brooks no argument, a verbal icy dagger that Hermione senses she only employs in extreme cases. Both men fall silent and the only sounds during the dessert course are spoons against dishes and sips of wine. 

“We’ll take tea in the blue parlour,” Narcissa announces and that signifies the end of dinner and the beginning of more socialization in yet another high-ceilinged, opulent room. 

True to its name, the parlour is indeed blue. From walls to furniture to art displays, powder blue is the reigning shade. 

“This must look gorgeous in the sunlight,” Hermione says before she can command her tongue. “Not that it isn’t now.”

But her comment has Narcissa bursting to tell her more. “Oh, but you must come for an afternoon, so you can appreciate it properly. Now, see the upholstery on this settee? It was designed for—”

Apparently one compliment on her décor choices is all it takes to receive an unabridged history of design selections for the entire room. Hermione is led from this chaise to that chair to this rug as Draco nurses a glass of brandy on a large sofa with Lucius. Hermione catches Draco’s eye as his mother waxes lyrical about an heirloom snuffbox and he gives her a faint “I told you so,” smile. Her lips twitch and she turns away, lest she miss any details about a Venetian vase Draco broke as a child. 

Once Narcissa has concluded her lengthy presentation, she turns hopefully to Hermione, “We could tour the gardens now as well?” 

“Oh, ah…”

“I think that’s probably enough for tonight,” Draco interjects, getting to his feet. “And you’ll have something to show her another time.”

Though she seems disappointed, she acquiesces. “Of course, we hope you will join us for more evenings in future,” says Narcissa with a significant look at Draco. 

She guides them back to the traveling room for the Floo as Lucius offers a curt goodnight and prowls off elsewhere.

Narcissa gives them both a fond farewell with a fixed smile and Hermione suspects Lucius is in for quite the row once they leave. Good. Arsehole. 

Draco hesitates before reaching for the Floo powder. “Actually, would you mind waiting here a moment?  I just want to grab something from my wing. I could use your help with it.”

“Oooh, for work?”

“Yes. I’ll just be a few minutes.”

He closes the door behind him and Hermione makes herself comfortable in an armchair. Until she hears soft voices from just outside the door. Overcome with curiosity, she crosses the room and presses as close as she can. Still, she only hears indistinct murmuring. 

Sighing at her compromised morals due to proximity to the Weasley siblings, Hermione rummages around in her bag for a pair of Extendable Ears. It’s not ethical, but she can’t help but wonder if the politeness from two-thirds of the Malfoy family tonight is all for show. 

With the earpiece in, she hears Draco’s voice immediately: “—trust Father to be at his most despicable.”

“You let me handle your father. Although, things must be progressing nicely with her if she agreed to come here tonight,” answers Narcissa.

“I’m sure she just felt she owed me for spending time with her parents.”

“Have you been following my advice at all?”

“Mother, it’s not that simple.”

“But it is, darling. Your match letter said ‘highest compatibility possible.’”

“Granger doesn’t believe in all that.”

“She doesn’t believe in ancient magic?” Narcissa sounds scandalized. “Let me send her home with some of our books. She hasn’t been taught the old ways, I could help her.”

“No, please don’t. This isn’t what she wants. She didn’t choose me, she didn’t choose this. She’s made that very plain.”

Narcissa scoffs. “Don’t say such things. Besides, you have more than two years to convince her otherwise. Plenty of time.”

“Mother, please.”

“You’re so dour these days, have you tried letting her get to know you better?" 

“Of course I have.”

“And the flowers? You have been bringing her flowers, haven’t you?”

“I ensure the front hall vase is always filled.”

Narcissa tuts in disapproval. “Draco, you have to present them to her. ”

“All the flowers in the world aren’t going to sway her, that’s not—she’s not…I just need to retrieve something for work. Father hasn’t been in my wing again, has he?”

“No, I checked your wards myself.”

“Thank you.” Hermione hears Draco retreat further down the hall and almost pulls the Ear back. 

“Draco,” Narcissa calls. “Your magic matched you two for a reason. Surely you wouldn’t give up so easily?”

in these silent days7

Draco never replies, Hermione only hears the clicking of his shoes as he walks away. Yanking the Ear, Hermione settles back in the chair, unsure of what to think.

She can see now the motive behind Narcissa’s behavior tonight and in writing the letters. Her belief being so strong in this so-called “compatibility magic” that she’s styled herself the friendly, welcoming mother-in-law, hoping to make Hermione feel more receptive to Draco. 

While sweet, in a way, Hermione still thinks whatever “ancient spellwork” this is, it holds no more water than reading tea leaves. 

And is all this the basis for Draco’s kindness towards her as well? Is he only accepting of Hermione because he thinks some magic is telling him he should? 

Mind whirling, she almost jumps when Draco returns holding a book. 

“I thought you might be quite interested to see this.”

He’s wearing black gloves to handle the book, and the sight causes a stir in her abdomen. Gods, her shower thoughts tomorrow morning are definitely going to feature those. When she lets her eyes roam from his covered hands to the book itself she gasps.

“Oh my God, is this a first edition?”

“No, it’s not the original. Back-dating spells place it in either the third or fourth printing run though, so it is very old and quite delicate.”

Hermione gapes in awe at the title: Malleus Maleficarum or as it’s known in English, The Hammer of the Witches. 

She conjures her own pair of gloves. “May I…hold it?”

“Yes, I was hoping to test something. Before we leave the Manor, I want to be absolutely sure this is safe for handling. For you, specifically.”

He carefully transfers the book to her hands then draws his wand. 

“Feel anything? Dizzy? Visions? Strange urges?”

Hermione stares down at the cover and turns the tome over in her hands. “No, nothing odd. Is it all right to open or should we do this on your stand at home?”

Draco lowers his wand and stands, motionless, for a beat or two. His lips part as if he wants to say something, but no sounds escape. 

“Draco? Are you—?”

“Home. Yes, at home would be better.” He takes the book from her and lowers it into a protective satchel. “I prefer to spell the pages to turn. Less risk of tearing that way.”

When they arrive back at the flat, Hermione follows him straight to his study, excitement coursing through her. 

Draco props the book on a stand, admires it for a moment, then turns to her. 

“Thank you. For coming tonight.”

“Your mother seemed keen for this to occur. But is your father always so…?”

“Miserable?”

“Uh. Yes.”

“Everything makes him miserable these days. The Ministry, his sentencing, society at large, my career, my decision to marry you.”

“He’d rather you be wandless for five years?” she asks in disbelief.

“No, he’d rather I accepted his solution of a hefty bribe to Matrimonial Affairs to classify me as exempt from the law.”

Hermione staggers back from Draco’s desk. “He…he offered a bribe on your behalf?”

“I certainly didn’t ask him to,” Draco says with a deep scowl. “I only found out from my mother. When I heard what he did I contacted the office myself to sort it out. As you can imagine, it caused an even wider rift between me and him.”

“But they—they accepted his gold? You could have been exempt?”

“Oh, they were all too happy to receive a sum of that magnitude.”

Hermione grips the back of a chair to steady herself. “I can’t believe it…you…you could have avoided all of this. Why didn’t you just let them take it?”

“Use that brain of yours, won’t you? How would that have looked?” he snaps.

“You’re assuming they would have dared let something like that get out,” she argues. 

“Did you think maybe I didn’t want to skirt the law this way?” Draco asks, incredulous. “All my life he’s thrown gold at anything in my path. Which worked until it didn’t.” His gaze flicks briefly to his left forearm. “I’m not letting him decide for me anymore.”

“But this decision didn’t just affect you!”

“Leave it, Hermione,” he barks and stalks past her. 

“No, I will not leave it!”

Hermione follows him out to the sitting room, anger and confusion coursing through her and finally reaching the boiling point for eruption. He only stares at her, waiting for the incoming fury tsunami to unleash. The word vomit comes out like the worst stream of unstoppable, uncontrollable magic. It’s a part of her that she’s kept dampened, and Draco’s revelation frees her from containing it any longer.

“Your family is—is—horrible! The whole lot of you just—just awful people! Did no one think for one second how bloody traumatizing it is for someone like me to have to marry someone like you? Of course not, because everyone moved on! They don’t have to think about how I’ve been tortured at your parents’ feet, how I bled on your floor, how I was almost killed right in front of you.”

Her voice trembles and loses strength—she’s angrier than she’s ever been. At him, at their world, at herself for being attracted to him. 

“And you—” she chokes out through frustrated tears, “you had an out because of course you did. And you didn’t take it. Didn’t think to perhaps once spare me from pain. Didn’t think of anyone but yourself.”

Hermione rushes down the hall and shuts herself in the bathroom. Sinking to the floor, she doesn’t even bother with a Silencing charm as she cries into her arms. No one would hear her pleas, no one would listen to reason, no one saw this as violating her free will, but the Malfoy family can still stroll into the Ministry and toss gold around in exchange for favors. 

She hears his footsteps approach the door, stop and wait, then a sigh as Draco heads to the bed instead.

Hermione doesn’t bother accounting for how long she sits there and lets tears run down her face. All she knows is her muddled mind is caught in the unfairness of it all. She’s stuck in one gear, and unsure of how to shift to the next. 

When she develops pins and needles in her legs, she stands, shaking her limbs. The arguing, the crying, it hasn’t been enough of a catharsis. She needs more and she won’t find it here. 

Outside the bathroom, she finds Draco sitting on the edge of the bed, cautious grey eyes awaiting her verdict.

“I don’t want to be here right now.” Hermione pushes her hair off her face and sniffles. “I’ll be at Ron and Luna’s for a bit." 

Draco says nothing. She doesn’t know whether she wants him to or not, but waiting for him to speak is futile anyway. 

She apparates away and the next moment is on a familiar doorstep. Ensuring her eyes are at least dry first before she rings the bell (a giant bumblebee engraved with “bee right with you!”) and waits for her friends. 

Ron answers and it almost makes her crumble all over again. 

“Hermione?”

“Hey,” she croaks with a weak smile, “okay if I come in and hang out for a bit?”

“‘Course you can.” He steps aside with a concerned frown and follows her to the living room. 

Much like the couple that inhabits it, Ron and Luna’s home is both haphazard and cozy. There’s more potted plants than she can count, knitted blankets and pillows everywhere. Messy and lived-in and everything Hermione would have hated in a home. Even now as she looks around, she’s tempted to tidy: to pick up the Drooble’s wrapper beneath the coffee table, to vanish the dead fern in the corner, to shake out and fold at least three bunched blankets.

“So, what did Malfoy do?”

“Ron—”

“Don’t ‘Ron’ me, he must have done something. Or wait—” he stops his forward progress through to the kitchen. “Weren’t you having dinner with all of them at the Manor tonight? Oh gods, Hermione are you okay?”

“I’m fine, just felt a bit…suffocated. Go on, make the tea, please.”

Ron frowns again but busies himself with a kettle. 

“Hello Hermione!” calls Luna as she bounds down the stairs. “Thought I heard you. I love it when unexpected people drop by!”

She sits right beside Hermione. “Is Draco coming, too? He’s invited if you like.”

“He isn’t,” Ron calls from the kitchen. 

“I know he’s not coming, dear, just letting Hermione know he’s invited!”

Luna winks at Hermione and they both stifle giggles at the grumbling they can still hear. 

“Dinner was all right, though? At the Manor? It’s not the most pleasant place. Or at least, the bits of it I saw were quite depressing.”

Ron comes in carrying a tray and plops it down unceremoniously on the coffee table, muttering darkly beneath his breath all the while. “Rotten family—imprisoned my wife—tortured my best friend—bloody pureblood tossers—”

“Why don’t you do some baking, love?” Luna suggests and strokes his arm. “Seems like you need to let off some steam.”

Ron throws up his hands and stalks back to the kitchen. 

“If making tea doesn’t do the trick, he’s usually good after a few loaves of bread,” Luna says conspiratorially. 

“I’m making pound cake!”

Luna lets Hermione quietly sip her—expertly brewed, to be honest—tea without prompting her for more information. This lingering peace her friend extends is why Hermione came here over the frantic interrogation she might have faced at Harry and Ginny’s. 

“I’ve been feeling overwhelmed for…for months now,” Hermione finally says. “And angry and sad and…well, I feel as if all my outlets have been plugged up. There’s nowhere for these feelings to go and I—I let them get the better of me tonight.”

“Is it Draco? Or the marriage in general?”

“Same thing, aren’t they?”

“Not necessarily. I know you resent the marriage bit, anyone would. But what do you like about Draco?”

Hermione takes a minute to think through all her interactions with him since the wedding.

“He’s intelligent. Capable. He takes pride in his career. One he made for himself. He’s kind to his mother and kinder to his father than he should be. He was great with my parents. He listens when I speak, and treats me with respect. I…enjoy our conversations. When he—when he opens up more I can glimpse the man he’s become and I…I like who that is.”

“Seems like despite the gruesome circumstances that forced you together, that you might have gained an unexpected friend. There’s nothing wrong with that.”

Luna smiles, but when Hermione cannot return the expression, cocks her head to the side. “Oh, I see. Did you perhaps leave out that you find him attractive?”

Hermione almost drops her cup. “I—that is—he—um. He is good-looking. Yes. Okay, yes, I find him attractive.”

“Well, that’s wonderful!”

“It is?”

“Yes, attraction is a very fun feeling and even more fun to explore.”

“I mean, I agree in theory, but I’m not sure it’s wise for me to act on it in this situation.”

“Is it because you feel guilty?” Luna frowns. “That’s the worst feeling, we should banish it.”

“Well, yes, of course I feel guilty. I shouldn’t feel like this for Draco while I’m actively trying to have the marriage dissolved and this law stricken down. It compromises everything I stand for.”

“In my view, those two things aren’t mutually exclusive.”

“Well, in my view, I’d look like I’m having my cake and eating it too. I can’t act on any of this while fighting the very concept. I can’t have both. It makes me the most awful sort of hypocrite.”

The oven door slams and they both jump. Ron storms into the room, red in the face but for a few spots of flour on his cheek. 

“I hate this—I mean, gods, do I hate this—but Hermione, why can’t you?”

“Why…can’t…I?” she echoes. 

“Those old windbags you’re fighting at the Ministry, they just do as they like, right?” He waves his mitted hands around. “And their hypocrisy has shite effects for everyone. But you aren’t hurting anyone or weakening your cause or whatever. You always tie yourself up in these knots.” He shakes his head. “I hate seeing you sit here and saying you’re a bad person. Judgment is off though because, ew, Malfoy, but yeah. You can be miserable and fight the law or happy and fight the law. That’s all it is.”

This is all very nice and mature advice, Hermione concedes, but it’s distracted her from her original purpose for needing to be out of the flat and away from Draco.

“I’m sort of really angry with him at the moment,” she admits. “It wasn’t malicious, what he did, just…selfish and shortsighted, in my opinion.”

“Stay here as long as you like,” says Luna. 

“Or at least until you’ve had a slice,” Ron adds and hustles back to check on his cake. 

After another cup of tea and a heaving slice of vanilla-lemon pound cake, Hermione feels comforted and content, even if a little drowsy from all the emotional turmoil and dessert. 

“Will you go back tonight?” asks Luna. 

Hermione hesitates, unsure of what it is she wants in the moment. But she knows Luna and Ron have no more advice to give for now, and she needs to choose how to proceed. 

“I think I should. See if we can’t find common ground here.”

 

When Hermione returns to the flat, she finds it dark and quiet. Stepping carefully into the bedroom, she sees Draco is the furthest point possible from her side, fast asleep. 

She likes how he looks in slumber: untroubled, youthful. The Occlumency probably accounts for the peace he exudes, but Hermione surmises it’s also because it’s the only time during his day that he doesn’t have to strain to mask all of his emotions. 

Again, the second she puts weight on the bed, he jolts awake. Wide eyes watch her settle down for the night and he makes that sleepy, pleased noise before rolling over. 

When Hermione sleeps, she dreams of eating several different types of pound cake at once. 

 

The next morning, Draco enters the kitchen and stops when he spots her. 

He obviously doesn’t know what to say to make this any better. Neither does she. 

Eventually, he clears his throat.

“I bought new flowers. For the front hall. For you.”

Hermione fights back a sudden urge to laugh, thinking of how displeased Narcissa would be at her son’s attempt at presenting flowers.

“Show me?”

He leads her to the newly filled vase. Hermione looks at the arrangement thoughtfully for a minute before giving up and resigning herself to researching the meaning. 

“Thank you, Draco.”

“I’m not the most adept at talking with people.”

“That’s not true at all. You had people hanging on your every word at the museum gala.”

“That’s work,” he says dismissively. “It’s a learned and necessary skill.”

“You never were one to keep quiet at school.”

“Hmm, true, and look where that got me.”

“Well, you seem to be doing all right for yourself now.”

“What I meant was: I’m not very good at expressing my true feelings,” he nods at the vase, “and you deserve more of those. So many more.” The seriousness in his voice startles her. 

“White tulips?” She reaches out a finger and strokes one of the flowers.

“I—yes. The tulips.”

White tulips: an apology.

 

It takes two days for her pride to wilt and her bravery to blossom.

They’ve tiptoed around each other since her blow-up following the dinner at Malfoy Manor. Hermione didn’t think Draco could be any more stiffly polite than he normally was, and yet he was starting almost every sentence with, “Pardon me.” 

He gives her even more space than in the earlier days of their marriage, almost constantly in his study. 

As much as she loathes the idea of being forced into a situation against her will, this new dynamic creates a loneliness deep within her. She regrets her harsh diatribe, and worries it may have cost her progress in getting to know Draco better.

After dinner, Hermione knocks on his closed door, unsure if she’ll be ignored.

“Come in.”

Draco is bent over a ledger. The Malleus Maleficarum still remains closed on the book stand.

“Am I interrupting?”

“Nothing that can’t afford to be interrupted.”

Hermione wrings her hands. She’s always been shite at apologies despite purchasing and reading an entire book on how to craft a sincere one. 

“Have you started working on it yet?” she points to the ancient, withered book.

“No, I’ve been waiting.”

For her? She wonders. 

Hermione takes a deep breath and ploughs ahead with her prepared remark.

“I wanted to say I’m sorry. For what I said about your family the other night. It wasn’t kind.”

“Perhaps not,” Draco shrugs. “But it was true.”

“Not fully. Not where you’re concerned. And I suspect your mother is making an effort.” 

“My mother has a better grasp on both reality and what’s important in life.”

Hermione takes a tentative step closer. “And with your father…I wasn’t aware how strained you two were. I didn’t mean to imply his bad actions were your fault.”

“Things between my father and me…” Draco trails off and rubs his temples. “I’d idolized him all my life. And now…now we constantly disappoint each other.”

“You’re not very like him.”

His fingers fall away from his forehead. He looks like he wants to disagree, which Hermione will not abide, especially when she knows she’s right. 

“People always make comparisons between boys and their fathers,” she says dismissively. “I’ve heard it with Harry ever since I’ve known him. But honestly, the more we learned about his parents, it’s clear he’s far more Lily than James.”

Hermione stands and leaves Draco with: “You’re much more like your mother, I think.”

She’s halfway out the door when she hears a quiet, yet firm, “Thank you.”

Notes:

Fun fact: Malleus Maleficarum is a real book and it is bananas. I saw a tiktok about it and I was like "this. I need this as a tiny detail in a fic."

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Thank you to bgonemydear for your constant support <3

You can find me on: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 8: Chapter 8

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Saturday evenings look a little different now. They begin with dinner at Malfoy Manor, with an arrival and departure so precise, Hermione wonders if Draco has a timer set. 

Narcissa has clearly had words with her husband since that first dinner, because Lucius no longer says anything at all unless it’s to bark an order at an elf. His surliness seems of no consequence to Narcissa, who rules the conversation with a bright and commanding air. 

She peppers Hermione with questions, clearly trying to draw as much information out of her as possible. Hermione suspects this is for Draco’s benefit, given what she overheard that first time. Draco’s mother is doing her best to ensure her son has all the facts required to woo her. 

Sometimes during these polite interrogations, Draco catches her eye and offers a subtle, apologetic grimace for Narcissa’s thinly-veiled nosiness. Hermione’s lips always twitch in amusement, and convey what she hopes is an unbothered expression. 

Now that she knows the impetus behind Narcissa’s actions, Hermione finds it quite comical and a little sweet. But what Draco’s mother doesn’t understand, and won’t because Hermione has no intention of telling her, is that Draco knowing trivial things like her favorite color or the name of her pet hamster as a child will hardly be what wins her over. 

What Hermione keeps to herself, nestled in the deepest recesses of her mind and heart, is the truth. That it’s Draco as he is now: a self-possessed, quiet, serious man with a passion for magical artefacts that Hermione’s come to regard with affection. 

Pride is a shared trait among the entire Malfoy family, though it manifests in different ways. 

Narcissa prides herself on being a good mother and wanting what’s best for her son and his happiness. Or rather, her perception of what would make her son happy. 

Lucius on maintaining his family legacy of purity in all forms.

And Draco, Hermione’s learned through quiet observation, on being his own person—distinct from Lucius’s insidious shadow. 

But as satisfying as the schadenfreude of seeing a cowed Lucius may be, these dinners come with a cost: Draco’ mood. He doesn’t drink much and only contributes to the conversation if directly addressed by Narcissa. He’s a tense, coiled spring, constantly on edge with his father sitting—and sulking—just at his side.

Once they leave the Manor, Hermione notes the immediate changes in him: loosening shoulders and softening features. They always part ways at this point (she to her friends, he to his), but then, secretly, she awaits her new favorite part of the evening. 

Hermione will get home first and put a kettle on, an especially helpful ritual if she’s had a bit to drink. After Draco returns minutes later, they settle on the sofa with warm mugs and exchange stories about their respective evenings. 

“Oh my God, Ginny and Harry had such a row because James was crawling away too fast and Harry used a Summoning Charm on him.”

“Blaise brought wine but it had turned, which we only found out because Greg chugged half his glass and almost vomited.”

“Ron, bless him, is trying to grow a mustache, and I don’t mean to be unkind, but it looks too much like a caterpillar for me to take seriously. Luna seems to appreciate it, so I suppose that’s just as well.”

“Theo is having Celine teach him French and he insists on practicing in almost every conversation. You’ve never heard a more offensive pronunciation of ‘merci’ in your life.”

Tonight, though, Draco is a few minutes later than usual. Hermione has already finished half her drink before she hears a pop of Apparition, a loud swear, and the foyer table wobble.

Unsteady, rapid steps sound out from the kitchen followed by a groan and a, “Praise the founders—tea.”

Hermione stifles a giggle as Draco walks carefully into the sitting room clutching his mug. 

“Er, hi.”

His dress shirt is half untucked, sleeves rolled to the elbows, and his glassy eyes, pink cheeks, and mussed hair only amplify the handsome unkemptness. 

Hermione lets her gaze rove up and down his figure then indulges in a smirk and a raised eyebrow.

“I know, I know,” Draco says and joins her on the sofa, “but we were celebrating tonight. Theo and Astoria are expecting.”

“Oh, how exciting, please pass on my congratulations next time. We should get them a gift.”

“I’ll take care of it. I’m to be godfather after all.”

“Are you really? Then congratulations to you, too.”

“Well, technically I’m not yet. I’ve got to duel Blaise and Greg for the honor. But I like my odds.”

Draco tips his head back and closes his eyes. Hermione studies his sharp, pointy profile, bathed in firelight with a lazy half-smile that exudes contentment along with the slight inebriation. He glows like a muted flame and she is a helpless moth—hovering, staring and wanting to be closer. 

“It’s nice,” she says quietly. “Seeing you this way.”

“Drunk? I don’t make a habit of it.”

“No, not drunk just…unburdened?”

Draco opens his eyes so he can roll them. “That’s dramatic.”

“I just meant…you always seem…lighter, I suppose, after you spend time with your friends. It must be nice, I mean, I know it’s nice since I have a wonderful group of friends myself…but it’s nice to relax with people who understand you fully. That’s all I was saying.”

Draco doesn’t answer, just settles lower against the couch. 

“You could be that way here, you know. At home,” Hermione adds. “I’d never want you to feel as if you couldn’t be yourself…with me.”

After a long, piercing look at her, he replies: “Noted.”

Occlumency is replaced by alcohol, it seems, as Draco’s tool for falling asleep quickly later. He snores lightly, with limbs more sprawled than usual. He’s not near enough for them to touch, but he’s close enough for Hermione to wonder how it would feel if they did. 

The following morning’s shower thoughts: long-fingered hands and a lazy, pleased smile. 

Hermione’s sated, post-shower mood is ruined by an official missive that arrives with her morning paper. She’s been given a written warning from the Office of Matrimonial Affairs for exceeding the maximum number of appeals allowed in a sixty-day period. They will not accept any forms from her for the next sixty days. 

 

Hermione has endured a few more social outings with Draco, some for her work, some for his. 

Hob-knobbing was never a skill she possessed. She often envied Ron’s affable charm, the “I’m just a regular bloke,” demeanor that ingratiates him with strangers. Then there’s Harry, who can command a room without even trying, and while part of it is “The Boy Who Lived” appeal, he also possesses an innate magnetism that would make him an excellent professor. 

People listen to Harry, whereas they tolerate her. Hermione knows her passion can come across preachy, enthusiastic conversations opening with sanctimonious salvos on her end. And it’s too easy for her to make a swift turn to argumentative if her conversational partner is misunderstanding her or worse, wrong. 

But these events with Draco have gone fairly well in her estimation. He’s only a quiet presence at her side when she speaks to colleagues, which she appreciates more than she can ever tell him. He doesn’t insert himself or interrupt, but gives her silent signals for when she might want to pull back—a squeeze to her elbow or a fresh drink nudged into her hand. These discreet actions force her to take a pause, a breath, and either end the current discussion or calmly steer it to safer waters. 

Thus far, he’s prevented her from openly berating several senior staff on house-elf freedom, Centaur bigotry, and Squib prejudice.

Hermione has also gotten better at grinning and bearing it when strangers congratulate her and Draco on their marriage; their few public sightings together quelling curious quills in all but one regard.

Those blasted pregnancy rumors thanks to Minister Lance. 

As she preps for another evening out—this time a dragon preserve benefit—she sighs and considers her wardrobe. Though she loathes caving to gossip, Hermione slides aside all her hanging formal robes and instead combs through her gown collection. Something a little more form fitting to declare, “See? No bump. Now bugger off.”

Choosing a blood-red silk dress, Hermione casts a critical eye over her reflection once dressed. The fabric hugs her curves from bust to low on her hips before flaring out. No person (or photographs) from tonight’s party could mistake her for being several months pregnant.

After a few minutes fumbling with clumsy fingers at the top closure behind her neck, she finds Draco in the hall. She gathers her hair up and turns away from him.

“Clasp this for me?”

He instantly complies, but that’s where his immediacy ends. 

“I like your dress.”

“Thank you.”

One of them should move. Or speak. Do anything besides stand there and breathe. She could turn around, but this action would bring them practically chest to chest. 

Stepping forward, stepping away, is the logical choice made by her feet, even as other parts of her scream in protest. 

“All set?” Hermione asks and holds out a hand. He grabs it with an expressionless face and she apparates them away.

Neither of them lets go when they arrive in the ballroom. 

 

Tonight has gone well, until now. Hermione spoke with three school governors from the Hogwarts Board who enthusiastically backed her Wolfsbane legislation. Testimonials from them, along with most of the professors and Madam Pomfrey, will strengthen her case. Plus, it’s forward progress on her end that she can show Miriam and the other parents as proof that their children could have support. 

It’s a high she hasn’t felt in so long, the thrill of succeeding at something big for her career. She takes a brief break from socializing at the edge of the room as Draco offers to grab her a fresh drink. 

But she’s not alone for long. 

“Good evening,” greets an older man in velvet, black robes.

“Travers,” Hermione says tightly. 

The man smiles wide. “So glad to have made such an impression that you remember me.”

He thinks she’s forgotten, does he? That shortly after Minister Lance handpicked him to head the Department of International Magical Cooperation he was on the court floor advocating for the marriage law? That Hermione doesn’t know he was a vocal supporter of that abominable, gruesome consummation tenet? 

“Enjoying your evening?” she asks. 

Travers blatantly ogles her midsection. 

“Such a shame, isn’t it? That the conception clause was struck out of the Act?”

It’s bait, don’t rise, her brain begs. But Hermione’s breath quickens, blood roars in her ears, and one hand fumbles at the latch of her clutch. 

Her wand resides inside, and with it, endless possibilities for retribution. 

A warm presence just behind her and a firm palm on her lower back pulls her just enough out of her rage fog to remain steady. 

Draco. 

“Hello, I don’t believe we’ve met. I’m Draco Malfoy.”

Despite the introduction, Draco does not hold out his hand.

“Yes, I know,” drawls Travers. “I believe you were acquainted with other family members of mine. Distant ones, of course.” His gaze lands on Draco’s left forearm for a cruel amount of time. “Anyway, I wanted to thank you and your beautiful wife.”

“For?” Draco asks, as Hermione can only think in the worst sort of jinxes.

“There’s more than a few members of the international community here tonight. Several other governments have expressed interest in similar laws to our Matched Matrimonial Act. And with the successful sight you two make as a couple,” he steps back and eyes them head to toe, “it’s practically sold itself. Thank you for doing your part for the Ministry.”

Travers grins and walks away. Hermione’s nerves tingle with excitement, anticipation. Her target has committed the most grievous of errors by turning his back on her. This will be so easy. 

She curls her hand around the vinewood, already feeling a spell building in her fingers. But a firm hand grasps her wrist, preventing her wand from coming into play.

“You don’t want to do that,” whispers Draco.

“I really do.”

”There’s a better way. One where people aren’t watching you. One that won’t hurt your career.”

Hermione lets Draco lead her out of the hall to an Apparition point. It’s only when he briefly lets go of her to grab his wand that she realizes her entire body is shaking. 

The next moment, they reappear in his study and Hermione sinks, trembling, into a chair. Draco leans against the desk with a wary look. 

Hermione inhales and exhales slowly for a few minutes. “You should have let me,” she finally says. “He deserved it.”

“Obviously, and then he would have pressed charges. Don’t you think I wanted to hex the Minister into the next dimension when I saw his hands on you?”

She scoffs. “As if you would have.”

Anger flashes temporarily, obliterating his seemingly effortless nonchalance. “You’re right, I have a self-preservation instinct you seem to lack. Doesn’t mean I didn’t want to hit him with the same curse that gave me my scars.”

Hermione’s gaze lands on his chest, where she knows beneath that crisp shirt he still has the physical evidence of Harry’s idiotic curse-casting. 

“It was horrific, wasn’t it?”

She expects a deflection to her prying, though soft-spoken, question, but Draco indulges her.

“The worst pain imaginable. And I’ve endured my share of the Cruciatus.”

Hermione squirms a bit in her seat. “I’m generally not a proponent of physical violence—”

“Third Year me begs to differ.”

“You also deserved it.”

“True.”

They share brief, fleeting, not-quite-smiles. 

“But these people—all these horrible, awful people responsible—need to pay. Somehow.”

Now Draco smiles wide. “Ah, I see. You have a hit list, don’t you?”

“I…may or may not have authored a document pertaining to everyone who has recently wronged me.”

Draco rolls his eyes. “Go grab it for me, you little would-be assassin.”

When she returns with it, he looks momentarily surprised before his mouth sets in a grim line. 

“This is…longer than I thought. How does one claim the honor of appearing on this prestigious list?”

“Every Wizengamot member who voted for the marriage law. Every member of Lance’s administration, personal staff, and his political appointees.”

“Why’s McLaggen on here?”

“He’s a knob.”

“Fair enough, proceed.”

“Then I have complicit press members. Editors-in-chief of publications that ran pro-marriage law tripe. Specific writers who mocked and discredited me. And any ‘reporter’ who wrote a piece praising the law.”

Draco rubs a hand along his jaw. “The press will always be the press. Nothing but bootlickers and barely matured guttersnipes. But the bureaucrats and aristocrats…that’s where we can play.”

“Play?”

Instead of answering, Draco pins her list to the wall. He takes his time surveying each name, then summons a quill and makes marks next to each one. He assigns a note for purebloods, those who pretend to be pureblood, Sacred 28, and former Voldemort sympathizers. 

“Many of the people you see on this list are from old families, tangentially related to old families, or like to pretend they can claim any sort of relation.”

“Why does this not surprise me,” Hermione mutters. 

“Generally, I don’t make it my business to seek out frauds. If I’m presented with a fake artefact, I’ve no problem publicly defrocking a person within the community. But you’d be surprised what you learn about people when they trust you with their most valuable possessions.”

“Oh? Like what?”

He smiles a cold, dangerous smile. It’s entirely too handsome.

“Like that maybe they didn’t come across an heirloom by honest means. Maybe they stole this sword from a different culture’s vaults. Perhaps this amulet was originally in possession of a Muggle relative they Obliviated. Most artefacts don’t have a clean history and with the amount of Galleons some of my bids net for clients, very rarely is the right person or peoples reaping the reward.”

“What does any of this have to do with my list?”

“I’ve worked, or been asked to work, with many of these families. For example, the gentleman you almost accosted tonight.”

“Travers.”

“Yes, I recognize the name, just not him. I happen to know his son was knee-deep in gambling debts that he paid off by trafficking unicorn foals out of the country. And didn’t just pay off debts, but turned a hefty profit, too.”

“That—that violates…so many Non-Tradeable Creature and Substance laws.”

“Indeed. As I said before, I’ve conducted myself as someone who does the job their clients asked for, and as long as everything checked out with curse removal, artefact validity, and a proper valuation for pieces, I have no quarrel with anyone. I never openly expose people at auctions, I’m only there to bid on behalf of whomever has hired me or myself. But you know,” his keen grey eyes sweep up and down the names, “perhaps it’s time to tweak how I conduct business.”

He sits at his desk and grabs parchment, somehow looking authoritative and commanding when performing a simple task. 

“What I need from you, is the name of a reporter you trust. Or, trust enough.”

“I know of a few that tend to write more Harry-positive pieces and do some excellent post-war journalism.”

“And would those writers be interested in rumors or hearsay?”

“Not petty gossip, no.”

“I meant rumors about swindling goblins, illegal business practices, that sort of thing.”

He slides the parchment and quill her way, but she hesitates and frowns. “What are you hoping to accomplish with these reporters?” 

“Simple, feed them a lead, anonymously, they can decide whether there’s enough evidence to substantiate the rumors. If they’re as reputable as you say they are, they’ll perform due diligence before publishing, right?”

When Hermione still fiddles with the quill, he tries another avenue. 

“Lance thinks he has the press in his pocket, that he can use them to stifle you. Why can’t you do the same? Show the world who these people really are.”

Draco gets up and walks around to stand in front of her. 

“This isn’t blackmail, threats, or extortion. Let me help you here. You want to root out corruption? Then give the people you trust something to work with and see what happens. At worst, nothing changes. At best, you’re exposing some of these bastards and letting the truth damn them.”

Hermione thinks it over for another moment and just barely resists chewing the end of the quill. Then she swiftly jots down four names. 

There’s pride gleaming in his eyes when she looks back up and God if it doesn’t make her limbs quiver all over again. His expression morphs to something serious. 

“And speaking of help, do you know how to use a Cooling Charm?”

“Yes, Second Years know how to cast one.”

She draws her wand and throws one his way. Draco dismisses it with a “finite” and a scowl.

“I meant for your panic attacks.”

Hermione recoils in the chair. “I’m fine.”

“If I’m not with you, or if you’re alone, you should know how to do this.”

Before she can offer more protests, he crouches in front of her. Draco takes hold of her wand arm and directs the tip to her other wrist. “It helps to cast one here,” he murmurs as his thumb circles her wrist, “and then here.” He brings her wand tip inward against her chest. 

“I’ll keep that in mind. Should I ever need it.”

He releases her hands, but stays at eye level. The lack of touch ignites disappointment—a new feeling that lodges itself in her ribs and throat.

“I never did say I was sorry,” he says. 

“For what?”

“For not telling you about my father’s attempted bribe.”

“It’s alright. I understand why you rejected his interference.”

“If it helps at all, I didn’t know I’d be matched with you.” He straightens up and backs away. 

“You technically did already apologize. I own a book on flower language, you know.”

He grins. “Of course you do.”

Hermione looks back up at the pinned list. “I don’t know if this will do anything, make any difference. But it means a lot to me.” She stands and faces Draco. “With every match appeal that’s been rejected…I feel like this hill I’m climbing just keeps getting steeper. It’s nice to not feel alone in it anymore.”

“I agree.”

The next afternoon, Hermione comes across the oddest bouquet she’s ever seen in the front hall. 

Black-eyed susans (for justice) and chamomile (patience in adversity) look sweet together. 

There’s also a few little sprigs of dill: powerful against evil.

But the bit of tansy is her favorite and makes her laugh when she finds the meaning.

Declaring war. 

 

The reality of living with a man invades her brain. His cologne, his soap, his scent is everywhere, to a maddening degree.

Her morning showers are a few minutes longer each day, what with all the ah—inspiration—from which her mind can now select. Hands sheathed in black leather gloves this morning, a rich baritone saying “I like your dress,” the next, and maybe a broad thumb circling her wrist and then further down her body the day after. 

It’s not all carnal urges on her end; the intellectual component is just as enticing. After hours of being hunched over her desk each night, Hermione will cross the hall to his study without bothering to knock. The door is now always left open. 

Some nights Draco briefs her on any “complicity list” progress, but aside from sending a few tips along, not much has yet to happen there. Most of the time, he’ll work on correspondence with potential clients and she’ll curl up in one of his chairs with a book. 

“Yours are comfier,” she insists with a sniff as she brings her knees up to throw her legs over the side.  

What she’s truly waiting on finally pays off one evening when Draco gestures at the Malleus Maleficarum .

“Are you ready for this?”

It takes all of her energy not to squeal in delight. “I was just reading up on the history of its spread through Europe. How did you come across it? It’s a Muggle book.”

“This is from my collection, actually. I bought it off a seller in Berlin about two years ago who specializes in witch-hunting history. I’m prepping it for an auction.”

“How can I help?”

“There’s not much work to be done as far as curse removal, unfortunately. Seems to be standard Muggle-repelling fare. But I have a feeling your Latin is better than mine.”

“Honestly, Latin should be a required course for all Hogwarts students.”

“Does that mean I can count on you to translate the Apologia auctoris to English?”

Hermione nods eagerly as Draco carefully moves the bookstand in front of her. She works diligently for a few minutes before the archaic language forces her to grab a translation guide from across the hall. 

Time passes in a blur of furious scrawling and page turning, and Hermione only slows her frenetic pace when her hand begins to cramp and her eyes droop. She allows herself to stop when the tiredness overtakes her to the point where she blobs ink at the end of a sentence. 

“I’ll do more tomorrow,” she promises before sinking back into the cozy chair. Without even bothering to put on a pretense of reading, Hermione snuggles against one side and drifts off in seconds. 

 

An amused voice attempts to wake her, but Hermione is not having it. 

“Granger, are you going to make me levitate you into bed?”

“Hmmhmmmmm,” Hermione mumbles and nestles deeper into soft fabric. 

Still immersed in a dream, she hears a distant, resigned sigh. Something coils around her: arms, strong yet lithe, hoist her up. She’s tucked snug against something hard and now has a different fabric in which to burrow. 

Oh, this is a brilliant dream indeed. Hermione rubs her cheek back and forth then drags her nose up a shirt collar. Her fantasy carrier smells so good, so clean. The tip of her nose nudges higher until it meets bare skin. Her lips follow, because as fantastic as this person smells, they surely taste even better. 

How lovely, how pleasant, to dream of stolen, lazy kisses. Hermione plants a lingering kiss to the base of a throat, earning a strangled noise from its owner. It’s a very nice throat and does in fact feel good beneath her lips, and Hermione doesn’t think waking from this dream is something she wants to do at this time. What she wants to do is to continue her mouth’s journey up his neck to a chiseled jaw and elicit that masculine groaning sound again. 

She wants more. She wants to lick, to bite, to mark. But the subject of her dazed, open-mouthed onslaught comes to an abrupt halt, jolting her awake. 

Alert and aware that Draco is carrying her down the hall and that, for the latter half of this brief journey from study to bedroom, Hermione has been laving at his neck, her head jerks back in horror. Draco’s chin is set, eyes front. 

“I—” 

There’s no satisfactory explanation she can give. “I was half asleep. I—um.”

He turns his head to look at her, and she expects an angry, confused gaze. But Hermione finds his expression pained and pleading and that his mouth is awfully close to hers. 

Wanting.

Longing.

A current flowing both ways. 

“I’ll walk now. Thank you. Sorry.”

Once he deposits her onto her feet, Hermione speed-walks into the bedroom to hide her face. 

Her sneaky morning shower wank has her recalling the taste of Draco’s skin and the sounds he made beneath her lips. 

in these silent days8

Notes:

Thank you for reading <3

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Thank you to bgonemydear for beta-ing, cheerleading, friendshipping <3

You can find me on: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 9: Chapter 9

Notes:

WARNING: NSFW artwork is embedded at the end of this chapter. Scroll at your own risk ;)
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
A quiet buzz is the reigning sound in the grand auditorium. Most attendees have their heads bent together, conducting hushed conversations about the event to take place onstage.

Hermione cranes her neck around the large room, wondering who amongst the auction crowd would be taking home their book tonight.

After translating the opening section of the Malleus Maleficarum, Hermione got to witness Draco perform his curse-breaking. It wasn’t much this time, he’d explained with an apologetic tone, as most of the spellwork was anti-Muggle and simple in nature. Still, it had thrilled her to watch him roll up his sleeves, scrunch his brow in concentration, and softly murmur Latin.

Like the man himself, Draco’s spellwork is neat and efficient. Dwelling on the memory for a mere few minutes causes a flush to creep up her neck as she shifts in her chair and tries not to draw the attention of the well-dressed man sitting just to her left. 

Hermione busies herself with the tasseled program, taking note of some of the featured items up for auction.

“There’s certainly a lot of goblin-made pieces here,” she says with a frown, “and yet not a single goblin in the crowd.”

“It’s an unfortunate hazard of the profession,” Draco delicately replies. “And they’ll fetch a good many Galleons since the material is so difficult to curse.”

“Are you looking for cursed items tonight?”

“Hmm, we’ll see what’s up for bidding. I’d like to find one or two cursed things to clean up and either trade or bring back to auction.”

The lights dim as the auctioneer takes to the podium. After thanking the assembled crowd, he gives brief instructions for how to bid and recites general rules for decorum, object procural, and retrieval for winning bids. 

Then the event is underway, with item after item introduced and wands raised as shining Galleon numbers float in the air above bidders’ heads. 

Draco seems uninterested in everything until about halfway through the evening, when an extravagant ruby choker in a velvet display box is wheeled into the spotlight. 

“From the private collection of the Fawley family, we have a solid gold choker inlaid with a single, round-cut, untreated, 18-carat ruby. The 17th-century piece has confirmed protective properties.”

Draco leans back in his seat with an anticipatory gleam in his eye. Hermione thinks this might be his first bid of the evening, but he does nothing. 

Though she doesn’t know much about what should or should not fetch a large sum, Hermione can tell this might be the first bust of the night. Bids are slow to start and the numbers are lower than anything that’s sold thus far. 

A few rows up and across the aisle, Hermione notices an older woman turn in her seat, glance around, then narrow her eyes at Draco. She turns away with a frown, but every few minutes, can’t seem to help herself from turning back their way.

“Why does that woman keep looking back at you?” Hermione whispers.

“You don’t recognize her? I’m sure you know her husband, just next to her.”

Hermione scowls, now seeing the man’s profile. “Rigel Fawley, decade-long member of the Wizengamot. Opposed my anti-discrimination bill and voted for the marriage act.” 

A name from her list.

“Yes. Sacred 28 and Dark Lord sympathizers, though not participants. And avid collectors and sellers of jewelry with magical properties. I own several pieces from them and this one would be an excellent addition.”

“So why aren’t you bidding?”

“Normally, I would. But you know,” Draco examines his nails, appearing supremely bored, “doesn’t feel like the right fit for me.”

It seems the Fawleys aren’t the only ones surprised by Draco’s inaction. After the auctioneer bangs his gavel to declare a final sale, there’s an outbreak of murmuring and more than a few heads turn briefly towards Draco.  

Hermione wonders at having that kind of influence. By simply refusing to acknowledge an item, by silently declaring disinterest, Draco can seemingly sway how pieces are valued by the rest of the crowd. 

When he eventually does decide to throw out a bid, Hermione watches as others eagerly follow suit. He’s quick off the mark if he wants something; often throwing out the first bid and then the Galleons climb and climb. He easily wins a jewel-encrusted dragon claw, an enchanted snuffbox, and a bewitched Victorian-era hand fan, but has to concede a set of ancient, stoppered poison vials after a vigorous back and forth with another witch. 

Hermione’s excitement mounts as she finally sees their book appear onstage. 

“Our next item up for bidding is the Malleus Maleficarum, more commonly known as The Hammer of the Witches. This relic of witch-hunting history comes from the private collection of Draco Malfoy, with opening section translated into English by Hermione Granger-Malfoy.”

She gasps softly. “You didn’t say you’d be crediting me!”

“Why wouldn’t I? You did all that work.”

Hermione watches as bids fly thick and fast through the air and huffs a laugh under her breath. 

“And it has nothing to do with using my name to net a higher sale?”

Draco’s lips twitch. “Guilty.”

They share conspiratorial smiles as they sit back and watch the gold roll in. It turns into the longest bidding session of the night, and Draco smiles ever wider once the final sale call rings out. 

“Congratulations, Granger,” he leans close to murmur, “we’ve earned triple what I paid for it.”

Perhaps it’s a superfluous, petty victory, this small slight and then triumph in the face of a detested Court member, but for Hermione, the giddy satisfaction is a much needed serotonin dose. 

When they arrive home later, she turns to Draco in excitement. “I had fun tonight. Will you bring me to the next one, too?”

“Any time you like.”

“And would you be opposed to working on the hand fan here? I like watching you. Work, that is. Curse-break.”

“I don’t think this one is particularly sinister, so I suppose I can make another exception for you.”

“Don’t act so put-upon,” she teases him. “You know we make a good team.”

It’s so quiet that Hermione later convinces herself she misheard him, but as he follows her down the hall she swears Draco mutters, “We truly do.”

 

It takes a few weeks for the effects of Draco’s new auction habits to dovetail with Hermione’s career. 

The first odd visitor she might have predicted, but it’s still a shock to see Rigel Fawley dithering outside her office one morning.

“Good morning,” Hermione says in polite confusion. “How can I help you, Mr. Fawley?”

“Mrs. Granger-Malfoy,” he says and inclines his head. “Could we speak privately?” His eyes move towards her office door, but Hermione grants no invitation.

“Terribly sorry, but I have a full schedule this morning. If you stop by the administration cubicles, someone there can find an open slot in my calendar for you.”

Fawley’s lip curls, and he stalks away without another word. He returns for his allotted appointment time later that afternoon though and still seems in an ill-humor. 

“This is a surprise visit,” Hermione says once he’s seated. “To what do I owe the pleasure?”

“I think we both know why I am here.”

Hermione taps her chin in thought. “Hmm, I confess I am at a loss. I currently have no legislation on the Court’s docket. Was there something creature-related you needed my assistance for?”

Fawley tugs at his robe collar and glares. 

“Your husband,” he spits, “is acting in a very disrespectful manner towards my wife.”

“Draco? I’m sorry, Mr. Fawley, but I’m not sure what you mean. We haven’t even spoken to either of you at the recent auctions we’ve had the pleasure to attend together.”

“I do find it odd, this sudden change in your husband’s behavior and can’t help but attribute it to your influence.”

A warmth ignites in Hermione’s abdomen. “You flatter me, sir, however Draco is very much his own man. Now, did you have something Ministry-related to discuss or are you continuing this inappropriate personal conversation?”

“You are damaging my wife’s reputation in the community with these silly games and it’s affecting her livelihood and—"

“And I couldn’t care less for either,” says Hermione and stands. “Further, your salary is a matter of public record, so forgive me if I find myself unconcerned with your substantial income. Now, if you’d be so kind as to leave, I have work to do. Feel free to follow my example in that regard.”

She opens the door with a flick of her wand. After a long, contempt-filled look, Fawley leaves without another word.

Hermione spies two other figures hovering just outside the door. One she knows is another Court member and the other is the Head of Magical Games and Sports. Two more names from the list as well as frequenters of the artefact auction circuit.

“Gentlemen,” she says with a saccharine smile, “as I told Mr. Fawley this morning, the administrative area is just back the way you came. You can make an appointment with them.”

She closes the door again and gleefully paces her small office. 

It’s a rush, this power. 

When she replays the conversations later for Draco over dinner, his grey eyes sparkle silver in that proud look she’s come to covet. 

“Told you,” he says smugly, “they fear you.”

“I think it’s more you, in this instance.”

Draco shakes his head. “No, Granger. They’ve only guessed incorrectly at what motivates me. You, however, are a force to be reckoned with once you’ve latched on to a cause. Your tenacity is terrifying.”

The almost breathless awe in his last statement inspires her strongest climax yet in her following morning’s shower.

 

After a few outings for Draco’s work, it’s once again Hermione’s turn for a career-obligatory event. 

Though at least this occasion (the annual Aurors’ Ball) means Harry and Ginny’s company. Hermione isn’t sure what’s causing jittering anticipation at her friends seeing her with Draco. They were at the wedding after all, and they’ve been to her home. 

But something about arriving arm-and-arm with Draco to greet Harry and Ginny feels like a declaration of sorts. Harry’s eyes immediately zero in on their physical contact and somehow narrow further when Draco removes her cloak for her. It adds intimacy to a situation that she would normally consider perfunctory. 

“Hi Harry! Hi Ginny!” Hermione’s greeting is overly enthusiastic and shrill to her ears, but Draco balances it with a perfectly stoic, “Potters.”

She feels every eye in the room on their group and not thirty seconds later, is almost blinded by a photographer’s flash. 

“Bloody vultures,” grouses Ginny. 

“Please tell me you didn’t flip them off this time?” begs Harry.

“Love, I would never. Now, I am no longer breastfeeding, fetch me all the beverages,” she shoos Harry towards the bar. Ginny then raises an eyebrow at Draco. He takes the hint with an eye roll. 

“Champagne?” he asks Hermione.

“Please.”

Ginny beadily watches Draco’s retreating back and waits to speak until he’s out of earshot. “Harry ran at least three background checks on him, you know.”

“What? When?”

“When the match was announced, right after the wedding, and then one last month, that I know of.”

“That was hardly necessary, though of course I appreciate the diligence. I—it’s nice to know he’d care enough to do that.”

“I think Harry—well, all of us, really—felt like we let you down by not stopping the law. But you just have to ask, Hermione, when you need things from us. That’s all. And anyway, I’m currently a bit cross with you. You haven’t been to see me in a while.”

“I see you and Harry all the time. Every weekend!” she protests.

“Pshh, Harry. I meant just you and me time.”

“I’m sorry, I just assumed, with James, you’d be busy.”

“I’ve had to make mum-friends, Hermione; it’s the worst. I demand a standing brunch date where no one goes into graphic detail about diaper rash.”

Ginny doesn’t bother waiting for Harry to return from the bar any longer and snags champagne from a passing tray. 

“And now that Harry’s occupied, tell me everything about Malfoy,” she says and hands Hermione a glass.

“What do you want to know?”

“When did you two start shagging?”

Hermione almost spits out her champagne. “Ginny! We are not shagging!” she whispers, scandalized. 

“Well, are you working your way up to it? Because gods, Hermione, the way he was looking at you, like he wanted to remove more than your cloak…”

“We’re not working our way to anything.”

Ginny adopts a softer tone. “Hey. It’s okay, you know, if you are.”

“It’s unnatural. I had to marry him by law.”

“Do you have to be miserable and celibate by law?”

Hermione doesn’t answer. It’s a cruder argument than the one Ron made, but the sentiment is the same. Her gaze wanders over to Draco, standing stiffly beside Harry at the bar. They seem to be playing a bizarre conversational tennis; one of them offers a brief statement, the other one nods, frowns, takes a minute, then says something equally brief in return. 

There’s clearly no love lost between the two men, but Hermione’s heart warms at the way Harry is so clearly aiming for civility. Other parts of her warm as her gaze moves to Draco’s reserved, tight features. What is he like when he drops all restraint? 

Ginny breaks through her musings. “You’re considering it, aren’t you?”

“Ginny,” Hermione says her name as a sighed admonishment. 

“You already share a bed.”

“How do you know that?”

“I’ve been to your flat. Your one-bedroom flat. Harry and Ron might be too dense or just assume there’s another one hidden somewhere so they can live in ignorant bliss, but I’ve only ever counted one bedroom.”

“It’s a very large bed,” Hermione counters with a sniff.

“Well, that’s half the battle won right there. He’s too proper to make the first move, I reckon, so you can just roll over casually in the morning and brush your bum against him.”

“Absolutely not.”

“Works like a charm with Harry. Hello, love,” Ginny says to her returning husband.

“What have I missed?”

“The opening dance. Come on, you owe me a few,” Ginny says, downs the fresh champagne from Harry, then drags him to the dance floor. 

“Do I get to hear what was discussed?” asks Draco, amused.

“You do not,” Hermione says with a small smile and vanishes her empty glass to accept a full one. 

They quietly sip their respective drinks and watch Harry’s attempts to waltz with Ginny. In under five minutes, he manages to step on her gown twice and almost take them both down in an ill-advised spin. Despite her husband’s clumsiness, Ginny only tosses her head back and laughs, pulling him closer with a fond look. 

“Potter is truly an embarrassment,” drawls Draco.

“Maybe,” Hermione concedes with a reluctant grin. “But Ginny likes to dance and he likes to make her happy.”

“There’s nothing ‘maybe’ about that level of ineptitude.”

“Harry is under no impression that he is anything other than awful, but I think it’s sweet he’d do that for her.”

Draco watches the other couple with an overt sneer before turning to her. “Care to show them up?”

He extends a hand and Hermione doesn’t hesitate. She deposits her glass on an empty table and lets herself be led to the center of the dancefloor. 

This might be the first thing that’s been effortless for them. 

No adjustments necessary to position or grip: his hands slide where they should be, as do hers, and they catch the waltz tempo with no need for conversation or a count-in. 

They don’t separate when the first song ends, nor the next. Hermione’s thoughts and worries dissipate as they glide and turn. Another song bleeds into another and another, and Hermione neither knows nor cares how to put an end to the dancing. All she cares to do is feel: the music, Draco’s palm on her lower back, their clasped hands, and his unrelenting gaze. 

Briefly, Hermione’s eye catches on a group over Draco’s shoulder. Across the room, Minister Lance is holding court, simpering sycophants hanging on his every word. He’s an engaging speaker and has the requisite political charm to win over a crowd as Hermione recalls from his campaign efforts. There’s no hint of the sinister man who grabbed her by the shoulders and manically extolled the marriage act. 

But then Lance looks up, spies Hermione, and his eyes harden, all warmth receding into an icy glare. 

“I don’t think the Minister is too happy at the moment,” she says. 

“Perhaps he is mourning the loss of his trusted Junior Undersecretary,” replies Draco. “How unfortunate that their Hogwarts transcript was revealed to be forged.”

Their first leaked tip hit the press earlier in the week, forcing the resignation of one of the Minister’s hand-picked assistants, as well as a good deal of deflection and blame-shifting from within the Ministry. The incident was a minor blip, easily explained away by Lance as an administrative oversight. But to Hermione and Draco, it’s the first crack in his armor. 

Hermione offers a rueful smile and refocuses her attention back on the much preferred sight of her dancing partner.

Let the Minister watch her and worry for a change. She’s too busy enjoying present company.

 

The victory high follows them home, Draco trailing her into the kitchen to recount his one-up over Harry’s abysmal dancing performance. 

“Told you,” he crows. “We wiped the floor with them.”

“It was never a competition.”

“Exactly.”

Hermione snorts as she reaches for the kettle. “Besides, anyone would be as good as you if they’d received waltzing instruction their entire childhood. I bet that’s all you know how to do.”

“Is that what you think?”

“Mmhmm, it’s all frippery with you. A simpler rhythm would elude your posh reflexes.”

“Oh, this is a rare treat indeed,” he says with a sly smile and removes his outer robes. “Come here so I can prove you very, very wrong.”

Hermione doesn’t bother with any more tea prep, as what she thinks Draco might be proposing will be far more invigorating.

When she approaches, he wastes no time tugging her to him, instantly looping a hand round her back and taking the other in his. The more relaxed position feels as natural as the more formal waltzing one from earlier and immediately their bodies sway together. 

Hermione isn’t sure who’s leading, who’s setting the rhythm or how. 

“There’s no music,” she says, as if it’s prevented them from synchronization. 

“Just think of a song. Have you no imagination beneath all that hair?”

“Professor Trelawney did once call me hopelessly mundane.”

“Tell you what. I’ll think of one and let you know when the dance is over.”

She waits a few minutes before calling him out. “How long is this song?”

Draco chews his lip in mock thought. “You distracted me and I lost my place. Suppose I’ll have to start it all over again.”

“Slytherin.”

The corner of his mouth lifts, and then his fingers lift too, tracing an incendiary path up and down her back. Up and down, up and down; a gentle constant that soothes and stimulates in turn. Hermione wishes he’d pick a direction, and with it, a firmer action. She wants his touch lower, grabbing the curve of her backside. She wants his touch higher, anchoring his grip in her curls. 

Unable to clear her mind, she instead clears her throat. “Can I ask you something?”

“Of course.”

“How are you so different now?”

“What’s different about me?”

“This feels like a trick question.”

“Or a deflection tactic that also allows me to fish for compliments.”

“Well, you’re certainly still a smug arse.”

“Flattery will get you everywhere, Granger.”

They dance quietly for a few more moments, Hermione’s pulse quickening with each little flirtation Draco throws at her. The teasing is more than welcome, but she cannot be deterred from her curiosity. 

“Can I ask something else? Is the reason you accepted me so early because the Ministry told you we were compatible? Is that why you even sent the apology letter?”

“That was two somethings.”

She glares, exasperated at the consummate negotiator that he is, but she won’t allow him to duck out of these answers. 

“Draco. Please.”

His face shutters briefly as he retreats into contemplation. Hermione allows him the time, content as they continue to sway, trusting him enough to wait for truth.

“You first asked how I’m different. Imagine, if you can, that for your entire childhood you were told these fantastic, happy stories. Stories about how your future would play out. You were told a tale of prestige and power, and in that tale, you had an equal by your side.”

He spins her out gently and tugs her even closer on the return. “This story does not come true. Not even a little bit. You rebuild yourself the best you can and wind up fine, but not before experiencing some…setbacks.”

“How did you overcome these setbacks, as you call them?”

“Traveling on my own. It helped me break free of certain influences in my life. Broadened my horizons, as the cliché goes.”

“What’s your favorite place you’ve been?”

Draco thinks for a long moment, fingers still absently trailing her spine. 

“Madrid. It was the first place I went when I was starting out. I didn’t know a single soul outside of the clients, didn’t speak a word of Spanish and yet…I felt like I could breathe again for the first time since…I don’t know, since I was fifteen or so. I went out in the Muggle marketplaces, magical ones too, and no one knew me, no one treated me a certain way based on assumptions. Merlin, it was addicting.”

She wants to tell him how much she likes when he peels back his layers for her, how she enjoys putting all these glimpses of his real self together.

“Are you going to answer my other questions?”

His low, exhaled laugh puffs against her brow. “I sent you that letter because I owed you at least that much, whether you accepted me or not. Though, I confess I did think it might serve the dual purpose of softening the blow.”

Draco turns her gently, pulling her back against his chest. She might miss his fingers, but cannot deny the thrill of being secured in this type of embrace, with his warm voice right in her ear.

“As for my thoughts on the compatibility results and what they meant…I’ve spent years mired in regret for just about everything in my past…for the person I was. So when I went through the testing, I didn’t have much hope for a palatable outcome.”

Hermione desperately wishes she could see his expression right now, but if she turns her head, this time she cannot use sleep as an excuse for where her lips land.

“But apparently,” Draco continues, “my magic deemed me worthy enough to be paired with someone like you.”

“Someone like me?”

“Hmm. Admirable.”

“Admirable?”

“It means people admire you.”

“I—you—I know that!” She turns in his arms and swats him.

“Sorry, it was too easy.”

“Yes, well. Thank you. Though I’m not sure there’s many outside my own friend group who admire me these days.”

“I do.”

Hermione has no reply, as Draco has disarmed her in that singular way of his: stealing articulation and cognition so that all Hermione can do is let him move her body. How easy it feels to just sway with him. How easy it feels to fall into rhythm. 

How easy it feels to fall.

This isn’t sustainable. Not for her. Every passing second sees Hermione edge closer to crossing a threshold, but indecision paralyzes her. Will her breaking point result in a wild, desperate action on her part? Or a more tender, tentative show of interest?

“Have I proven you wrong yet?” Draco asks. 

God, yes. She’s been so wrong in so many ways when it comes to this man.

“Yes. Your dancing repertoire does indeed extend beyond a waltz.”

They come to a slow halt together, as if their bodies mutually decide the dancing portion is concluded and other activities may now commence. 

“Bed?” she murmurs and lets him go. 

“If you’re tired.”

Hermione doesn’t feel the least bit tired. She’s dizzy, experiencing the heady anticipation of leading a date back to her bedroom. Except that it’s his room. No…their room. They also aren’t dating, as the Ministry made sure they skipped that step, but Hermione can easily envision how a date with Draco would quickly lead to a bed, a couch, any horizontal surface, really. Or vertical, there’s plenty of wall space in the flat and she’s not picky. 

Hermione’s hesitation to do anything to further her own desires only leads to heated stares as they both settle down. Her body is a live wire and the bed has never felt so small. 

Eventually, his Occlumency wins out, but it’s the longest he’s ever taken to fall asleep. 

The following evening, Hermione spies a brand new bouquet in the foyer. 

Calla lily, hibiscus, orchids, peonies.

He’s called her beautiful several times over with this arrangement.

 

The living situation has become the worst sort of untenable. Hermione wants to blame it on a horrendous dry spell, as this is the longest she’s gone without any sex. But then why is Draco the only man she pictures when she gets off? 

She tries thinking of silly celebrity crushes. Film stars who used to capture her attention and quicken her pulse. Nothing. 

She tries reading erotica, the filthiest books she can find. This is also a depressing dead-end. The author could be describing the opposite of Draco in every way: hair color, stature, temperament, etc., and yet all she can envision is him. 

Draco in his stupid dress robes, or his stupid three-piece suits, or God, the stupid way he bites into toast that is so precise it almost looks mechanical, and for some stupid reason makes her want to crawl across the dining room table at breakfast. Or under it. Merlin.

Stupidity seems to be the reigning sensation and, when combined with her vehement attraction, it leads to some bold decision-making on her part.

Every day since the Auror ball, Hermione finds herself wound up by the slightest thing he does or says. Then, she drives herself crazy wondering if this touch is intentional, or if that statement is an innuendo, and then she has to endure nights in their bed imagining with him mere feet away.

She reaches a breaking point tonight. It might be one or two in the morning, she has no idea. All Hermione knows is Draco is asleep and she is awake, suffering and wanting. 

The bathroom is right there. If she gets up, relieves herself in private, she can come back to bed with him none the wiser. Or, risk having him awake when she returns and have to stutter out an unconvincing lie. 

She can be quick and quiet, she reasons, body making the choice for her as eager fingers go straight to her knickers. 

Her confidence is misplaced, of course, when not two minutes later she fails to stifle a panting noise. Draco’s breathing pattern is no longer deep and even, and Hermione freezes in place. 

“What are you doing?” Voice sleep-ragged and low, Draco props up on his elbow with an incredulous stare, eyes flicking down to where her hand currently rests.

There are a couple ways she can play this moment: a flustered apology, a stern denial, a plea of innocence. 

Hermione decides on the audacious truth. 

“Thinking about you.” 

Draco takes a deep, steadying inhale. Then, his hand disappears beneath the covers and closes around her wrist. Removing her hand from her sleep shorts, Draco brings it to his mouth, sucking on her fingers. Her entire body trembles at the sight, core clenching around nothing. When he’s thoroughly tasted her, he releases his grip but not his stare.

“If you require something, Granger, you need only ask.”

Except she can’t ask. Too many desired scenarios compete for attention and demand she speak them aloud. Seeing her riddled with indecision, Draco prompts her. 

“Did you finish?” 

Hermione shakes her head. 

“Would you like to?” 

She nods. 

He whisks the covers off her body in an instant. Surprisingly, Draco doesn’t kiss her lips, but slips down the bed, beginning at her navel. His mouth maps her abdomen, searing kisses across the swathe of skin between her top and bottoms. 

He doesn’t tease her long, his hands soon tug her shorts down as he positions his head between her bare thighs. 

At this sight, Hermione blurts out, “I always think of you. When I—”

The rest of her sentence ends in a gasp as he licks her slit. If she thought dancing came easily to them, it’s only because he’d yet to use his tongue on her. It’s aggressive, voracious, the way he bestows pleasure. As he is unrestrained in his reverence to her clit, Hermione lets herself fall into disarray. She grips the sheets with whitened knuckles, allows high-pitched whines from her throat, places every sensation’s blame on this man’s wicked tongue and its sinful maneuvers. 

Draco coaxes her legs to rest over his shoulders without breaking contact, but Hermione looks up as he takes one hand away. When she sees a suspicious rhythmic motion involving his forearm, feels him groan into her cunt, she knows her climax is imminent. 

“Are—are you—touching yourself?” 

He briefly pulls his mouth away. “I absolutely am.”

“Oh my God.” Her head falls back against the pillow. His confirmation sends her into glorious gratification and she succumbs fully and freely.

When her muscles finish quivering, Draco kneels over her, cock in hand. Hermione watches him stroke himself for a few mesmerizing moments before lifting her hips hopefully in his direction. 

“I’m close,” he rasps in apology.  

Hermione sits up enough to take her top off. “You can finish—on me—if you want.”

She’s never done this before and she can’t explain the inclination now. But it’s dark, and there’s only moonlight and a man so turned on from consuming her that he’s seconds away from losing control, and she wants that evidence of his undoing, tangible and covering her. 

When his spend coats her stomach and chest, Draco sits back on his heels and surveys her, nude and dripping before him. His gaze sweeps head to toe, as if he’s appraising a rare artefact. 

He grabs his wand to conjure a cloth. “So lovely,” he murmurs as he cleans her off, his touch careful and thorough. 

Draco retreats to his side of the bed once she’s dry again. Neither speaks. Hermione, for her part, is so blissed out that conversation feels both unnecessary and bothersome. 

They each roll onto their sides, watching the other, until Draco falls asleep first.

in these silent days9

Notes:

Just FYI this will be the last update for a bit. Taking a hiatus for a while and then will be excited to come back and share the rest of the story, whenever that may be. Thanks for understanding xx

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Thank you to bgonemydear for getting me through another chapter <3
Chapter 10: Chapter 10

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Regret does not greet her in the morning. Nor shame. Instead, temptation beckons. A crawling, curling want torches her veins. 

Hermione stares across the bed at the morning view she’s wasted for months. 

She has things she wants to say: I’m sorry. I didn’t know. I didn’t know it could feel like this.  

She has things she wants to do: kiss, lick, grab, hold.

But Draco slumbers on and Hermione can’t bring herself to disturb him. He told her last night to ask when she required something and he’s consistently shown himself to be a man of his word. Though now some questions and doubt creep in, so Hermione decides to kill time and anxiety with a shower instead. 

The water is barely heated, steam hasn’t even gathered on the glass, when she hears the bathroom door open. Draco stands before her, watching the water cascade down her body. 

“May I join you?”

Hermione nods and opens the glass door. He steps under the spray with her, seeming not the least bit self-conscious about his nudity or hers. 

The hair plastered to his forehead turns a darker blond as it gets wet; Hermione takes the initiative to smooth it off his face for him. She didn’t get to touch him much last night. Rectifying that oversight is her first objective. 

Her hands move down to his chest, pale and slick and littered with faint pink slashes. Draco’s scars are randomized streaks with no rhyme or reason to their shape or length. 

Her gaze slides lower and lands on the faded Dark Mark on his left forearm. In the bright bathroom lighting, it’s clear and stark against his skin. Hermione studies it for a time, catalogues its existence on him, then searches his face. 

Draco doesn’t look away, doesn’t hide or move to cover his arm. It’s a part of him whether she can see it or not, and it always will be. 

There’s regret in his eyes but a defiance, too. He cannot change who he was, can she accept him as he is?

Yes, she wants to tell him. Exactly you and no other. 

This beautifully vulnerable man makes her heart ache in a way she’s never known. Hermione leans forward and kisses a scar on his chest, letting her mouth drag along his skin until she needs to pull back and catch her breath. She immediately dips her head to kiss another scar when Draco stops her.

One finger lifts her chin. A second tilts it up more. Pressure applied with both fingers communicates his intent. 

A kiss. Soft, ephemeral. The briefest cautionary whisper against lips that have not yet met. A tiny touch leaves a lasting impression. 

A second kiss, then a third. Longer stretches of shared breathing. Mouths that suddenly forget how to live apart. Hands quickly reach for heads, chests, hips, in a desperate bid to feel and then to hold. 

Draco backs her up against the cool tile, both thumbs circling her nipples as he redirects his feverish kisses from her lips to just below her ear.

“You’re very forward this morning,” she teases, even as she struggles to take in air.

“You’re letting me touch you and you’re touching me and I’m losing my bloody mind. You will have to tell me when to stop.”

“Don’t stop.”

She takes his hand and places it between her thighs. Draco eases two fingers inside and pulls his head back to watch them slip in and out of her, to see her hips buck and seek friction he can provide. 

“Every morning I wake up thinking about you like this,” he groans. 

“And what do you do with those thoughts?”

He takes her hand and wraps it around his hard length, pumping up and down with her a few times. 

“Why do you think my showers are so long?”

She gasps as the image of him doing this to fantasies of her almost careens her over the edge. 

“Draco…please.”

She hasn’t even finished her two-word begging phrase before he’s trying to replace his fingers with his cock. She stands on her tiptoes and arches her back while Draco does his best to lower his body to the appropriate height, but things aren’t exactly aligning as they should. 

After the fourth failed attempt, Hermione releases her held-in laugh. “I think you’re too tall.”

“I’ll hold you up, don’t worry.”

She stops his efforts to scoop her. “I have a better idea.”

Gently pushing him back under the warm spray, Hermione kisses him into compliance. Then she gestures behind him. 

“Sit down,” she orders and Draco dutifully lowers himself onto the shower bench. 

Hermione moves to straddle him, but Draco shakes his head and holds her by the waist. “Your knees won’t like that. Here.” He turns her around then pulls her hips towards him, caressing her backside. 

The only part of this position Hermione doesn’t like is that she can’t see Draco’s face when she sinks onto his cock. 

The fullness, the stretch, takes some getting used to, and Hermione is content to let this moment linger. There are no sounds besides his harsh breathing against the back of her neck, the droplets raining down on her feet and the porcelain. Draco reaches around to skim up her inner thigh. 

“Okay?” he asks. 

“Yes. Just let me…” Hermione shifts a little forward then slowly raises and lowers herself. Draco’s grip tightens on her hips and he curses softly into her skin. She does it again. And again. Her movements gain confidence and speed.

“Charm?” he mutters. 

“I’m on the potion.”

He wraps one fist around her curls and pulls just enough to have her lean back against his chest. This slows their pace considerably, but Hermione hardly minds when Draco ensures pleasure permeates her every nerve ending. She cannot decide what feels the most sensational, as Draco appears to have made it his mission to make her appreciate literally every bit of her body.

“Good?” he asks, but Hermione has trouble answering. Is he asking about the rough kisses to her neck? His fingers’ firm ministrations between her legs? The well-timed, languorous thrusts? Perhaps the possessive hold across her chest or the equal attention he gives each breast?

“Yes…Draco, I want—”

“Take it, then.”

Hermione doesn’t need to be told twice. She leans forward again and braces her hands on his thighs, riding him to delirium as his fingers dig into her hips. She comes shouting his given name, which only spurs him to a frantic finish.

“Can I—?”

“Yes—inside me—you can—come inside me.”

His whole body tenses at her permission and once he’s emptied inside her, Draco sits back and gathers her closer.

“Beautiful, beautiful wife,” she hears and feels his mouth pressing against the damp skin of her shoulder blade.

His statement should disorient her, alarm her, but Hermione can only muster the energy to be sated and soothed.

 

Hermione’s day continues in an excellent direction after that auspicious start. 

She flips through the morning paper to see an illegal dragon poaching ring bust. One of those complicit? Wizengamot official Dorothea Pepperidge. The disgraced Madam Pepperidge would resign from court duties immediately, leaving Hermione with burning satisfaction and another name crossed off her list.

Work also brings about a pleasant surprise. Mr. Lawson knocks on her door mid-morning to cheerfully inquire about her progress with her Wolfsbane for minors proposal. She briefs him on her correspondence with Miriam, the other parents, and Hogwarts staff and governors, and not only does her direct superior listen, he asks if she’d like him to assign anyone else from the department to assist her. 

Hermione can’t be sure if it’s the positive press of her and Draco or if anyone close to Lawson is currently experiencing some comeuppance for unethical behaviors, but she’ll take the benefits all the same. 

A couriered message in the late afternoon almost has her fall over from joy. Miriam has managed to provide what she thinks is a close approximation of how many werewolf students Hogwarts could expect for the next few years. Hermione’s eyes whizz across the parchment, trying to calculate in her head ingredient supplies, potion storage, and accommodations before she almost goes cross-eyed. 

This information is of the utmost importance to her cause. With it, she can craft an estimated budget for when she’s ready to bring this measure to the Court. 

She has letters to write, suppliers to research, brewers to contact, and someone she wants to run and tell all of this to immediately.

Draco. 

Draco who greets her with a deep kiss when he apparates home, who leans against the counter as she cooks and hands her utensils and ingredients, who listens as she babbles excitedly about her work day, who hands her a glass of wine and steals several more kisses in the process.

Hermione loses track of the hours after dinner as she composes a list of as many questions she can think of in her study. She’ll need to contact several Hogwarts professors: Sprout to find out which ingredients she has or can grow; Slughorn for his brewing bandwidth; McGonagall for spatial accommodations on full moons, and Madam Pomfrey for potion storage and distribution logistics. 

A soft knock against her doorframe makes her jump. Draco enters with an apologetic smile. 

“I can’t remember the last time you stayed away from my armchairs for an entire evening.”

Hermione straightens up and winces at the cracking sound made by her back. She glimpses the clock on the far wall and groans. “God, is that the time already?”

Draco hums and walks around behind her chair. Large hands fall to her shoulders, sweep her curls aside then find a particular knotty bit in her upper back and dig in.

When did this become easy? Her eyes drift shut as she tries not to think about what “this” even means.

“Your posture is horrendous,” he murmurs after a few minutes during which Hermione makes embarrassing noises in response to his ministrations. 

“My posture is perfect,” she argues faintly. “Have you considered it was a ruse to get you to rub my back?”

“Do you like me touching you like this?”

Her answer is a blissful moan. 

“I see. It has occurred to me that we don’t really know what each of us likes. I want to learn more.”

He bends down and nips her ear. That simple action almost has her surrendering to the unspoken promises contained within his mouth’s journey down her neck. 

“I’m sorry,” she eventually says, grabbing his hand and squeezing. “I want to finish more of this tonight. I don’t know when I’ll come to bed.”

Draco brushes her knuckles with a kiss. “Take your time.”

He’s just reached the doorway when she calls him back. 

“Draco? Will you wake me up in the morning?”

“Of course, what time—?”

“With your tongue.”

It’s fun to shock Draco. To make that controlled, marble countenance slip from composed to gobsmacked before he can master it.

“That can be arranged,” he says and Hermione considers his hoarse tone the ultimate victory. 

 

Sleep is hard-won when her entire body is vibrating in anticipation. It takes ages for Hermione’s fretful energy to die down with an Occluded Draco slumbering on his side of the bed. Second-guessing her bold request and whether she interpreted his reaction correctly does eventually culminate in tiring her out. 

Consciousness returns some time later with a lick against her covered nipple. The other receives the same gentle treatment followed by a nip of cool air on her skin as her night clothes vanish with a swish of magic and a whispered spell.

Kisses rain down her chest and navel, then a few to each of her hips. Hermione rouses fully as Draco works back up her body and his mouth takes one breast then another in turn until she’s arching her back. 

“Already awake and I haven’t even gotten between your thighs yet,” he playfully scolds. 

Hermione’s eyes blink open as he plants more smirking kisses down her abdomen. His follow-up performance to his first cunnilingual display has Hermione abandoning the sheets for his hair as her anchor. 

It’s what she’s wanted to do for weeks now: grip and tug and card her fingers through those blond strands as wantonly as possible. The feather-soft locks are tactile heaven, as is the deliberate way Draco’s tongue applies pressure right where she needs him. 

But it’s how he watches her that truly steals Hermione’s breath. She’s seen him perform his curse-breaking, how an object becomes his singular focus, and to be the subject of such an intense study electrifies her. He’s cataloging how each maneuver on his part affects her. How dipping a tongue inside makes her grind harder against his face, how simultaneously circling her nipples gets her wetter, how responsive she is to different pressure levels to her clit.

Is he into praise? Hermione is in no way comfortable calling him “good boy” or any sort of pet name, but God those eyes are begging for some sort of verbal feedback. 

Then his mouth performs the perfect amount of clitoral stimulation and she doesn’t even have to think about it anymore. 

“Draco…right there…like that…yes.”

Coming for him, because of him, is the ultimate prize, it seems, for both. Draco groans into her cunt as she shakes and rolls against his face before falling slack against the bed. 

He kneels over her, cock hard and untouched this time. Hermione reaches for him, stroking in quick, decisive movements. Seeing him try not to come undone from pleasure she delivers heightens both her ego and her desire. He is hers to unmake. 

Draco covers her hand and stills it. “Gods, you’re good at that, but if you want me to fuck you, please stop.”

She obeys and shifts her hips up. “Good girl,” he says, driving into her with one thrust.

Well. She’s into praise.

Or perhaps she’s into praise from him. Not that she’s had them in abundance, but no former lovers have ever called her that before in bed, and Hermione struggles to imagine that phrase ever sounding better than from Draco’s lips. 

He says it again when she crosses her feet at the ankles behind his back and then she’s a mess of breathy, instinctual sounds all from the rapid snapping of his hips. 

She’s saying something over and over again; a soft, repeated vocalization, and it’s only after five or six repetitions that she realizes it’s his name. It’s not a word she has to avoid saying anymore. No more biting her tongue, no more whispered climaxes in the shower. 

When she feels ecstasy nearing, Hermione captures his lips, as if a searing kiss can impart even a tenth of the rapture he’s making her experience. She comes whimpering his name into his mouth and Draco’s movements become faster, rougher.

“Perfect. So perfect,” he mumbles into her skin, burying his face in her neck. More coveted praise that extends her high. 

Hermione lifts his head up, forces him to look at her. 

“I want to see you,” she whispers. 

Draco’s pace falters but he doesn’t shy away from her request. Beautiful, unguarded and gasping, he allows Hermione to witness every moment as he finishes. 

He stays pressed into her and kisses her. The kissing doesn’t stop as he rolls them over, as he blindly grasps for his wand to clean them up in two flicks, as he shifts her onto her side and gathers her close. The only thing that changes is the frequency as sleep tries to overtake them, but their lips meet and part and taste with no apparent plans to stop until unconsciousness forces them to cease. 

Come morning, Hermione doesn’t remember who fell asleep first, which of them was forced to concede the endless make-out session by virtue of slumber. 

All she knows is she’s woken up in Draco’s arms and she plans to kiss him awake, too.

 

This is all Draco’s fault. 

He’s kissed her and now she can’t stop. She needs more. It doesn’t even need to escalate further, she just needs to constantly kiss him. 

It feels good to kiss him no matter how her day goes. If her boss leaves her off another project, she kisses Draco in a rage, slamming her lips against his and hoping to work off her frustration. If she sees forward progress with the werewolf community, she languidly snogs him in bliss, a hazy, heady contentment. On days where she’s worn out, he kisses her with soft, comforting lips that soon have her reinvigorated.

Hermione has always been excellent at focusing while on the job, but that doesn’t mean all her Ministry hours remain distraction free. 

She almost walks straight past the canteen till without paying for her lunch because her brain decides it’s the perfect moment to relive Draco fingering her after work yesterday while murmuring, “always so wet for me,” followed by her new personal favorite, “fuck, you feel so good.”

“Hermione?”

Harry’s voice breaks through the rampant filthy memories. Was she talking? Was Harry? 

“Sorry, I—sorry. You were saying?”

Harry frowns and leans forward over their lunch table. 

“You’re weird today,” he declares. 

“What do you mean?”

“You’re all…relaxed and happy-like.”

“I’m just me, Harry.”

“No, this is different. Whenever we actually have time to lunch together you’re always stressed or ranting about your department. But this is…” 

Hermione says nothing as Harry narrows his eyes, reaching his damning conclusion.  

“Oh my God, you like him. You actually like Malfoy.”

Her initial instinct is to scoff and deny, but she suppresses it. Because what would be the point? Is she ashamed? No. Does she regret any of the pleasurable experiences they’ve exchanged? Also no. Further, is she planning on accepting judgment from her best friend on this subject? Unequivocally no. 

Hermione folds her arms across her chest. “Would you have a problem if I did?”

Harry appears not to have heard, continuing to mutter in disbelief. “I thought something was up with you two at the gala with the dancing and whatnot, and Ginny was so bloody smug.”

He removes his glasses, polishes them on his robe sleeve, then sighs as he puts them back on. 

“Okay. I cannot believe I’m saying this but no, of course I don’t have a problem with you…liking…him. Malfoy.”

“That was rather difficult for you just now, wasn’t it?”

Harry shudders. “Let’s just…look, I didn’t want to talk about Malfoy today. I wanted to talk about you.”

She gives him her undivided attention as Harry worries his bottom lip between his teeth, clearly working up to something uncomfortable. Emotional conversations were never his strong suit, and Hermione senses the anxiety rolling off him. 

“I suppose I should start with saying I’m sorry. I don’t think I’ve been a good friend lately.”

“Harry…”

“No, I talked this through with Ginny and she said I should probably just…say my thing.” He ruffles his black hair. “So, erm, yeah. Ever since we had James I think I sort of disappeared into the whole dad thing and…” His face flushes.

“Harry, that’s completely understandable. Babies are time and energy consuming.”

“Yeah, no, definitely. Bugger’s lucky he’s cute. But I had this sort of epiphany the other night that when big things—and Merlin, there’s been a lot—happen I think I sort of…set you aside?”

He casts his eyes down at the table. “It’s not…I don’t mean to, you know. I’ve just always known you could handle yourself, that maybe you didn’t need me so much to worry for you…that it’s insulting to your intelligence to think you need me at all.”

“Harry,” she tries to cut in, but he probably doesn’t even hear her emotion-tinged whisper. 

“I know how hard you can fight on your own, but maybe…maybe I could have done more? Since the act passed? I know you’re still sending in appeals.”

If he doesn’t stop talking, she is going to openly sob into this sub-par beef stew. 

“Harry,” she finally says firmly. “I’m fine. Well, no, maybe I’m not. Not completely. But I’m getting there.”

She casts a quick Muffliato. To his credit, Harry listens to her torrent of feelings with only a slight blush on his face. She tells him how rough work has been, how despicable she finds the Minister and his colleagues, about her panic attacks, how awful Lucius Malfoy continues to be, and finally, how she and Draco are seemingly an effective alliance.

“Hmm,” Harry rubs his chin. “I probably shouldn’t say anything but…our department has been receiving some interesting inquiries from the press in recent weeks. Asking us to confirm Ministry employment records or comment on alleged illegal behaviors by specific employees here. Does this have something to do with your little revenge scheme with Malfoy?”

“Having reporters follow up on anonymous leads is hardly anything so salacious.”

Harry doesn’t look reassured. “You’re being careful, yeah? Don’t think I forgot what you did to Skeeter.”

She rolls her eyes. “No one is being threatened or held hostage. I promise. We’ve just perhaps found a different way to root out corruption that may or may not also achieve my end goal of having this ghastly law overturned.”

“Hermione, I trust you with anything. I can’t say the same for Malfoy, though.”

“If you trust me, then you trust him.”

Harry blinks in surprise at her firm and instant assertion. “I—alright then.”

They finish their lunch hour quietly and as they part ways for the day, Hermione pulls him into a brief hug. 

“Thank you,” she says. “For everything you said today.”

Harry coughs and straightens his robes. “It was, you know, necessary. Yeah,” he mumbles, which to Hermione is as good as an “I love you.”

Their conversation occupies her thoughts for the rest of the afternoon and follows her home. While his words were welcome, she’s still hung up on how Harry’s view of her shaped her entire adolescence and then bled into adulthood. Hermione was the dependable, steadfast friend, but she had no issue standing up to her loved ones if she felt the ends justified the means. Even if it meant being shunned for telling a professor about a potentially cursed broomstick, or risking their wrath for having concerns about a hasty escape to the Department of Mysteries. Maybe there were times she felt used for revision schedules, homework answers, or new spells for the Triwizard tournament. 

And maybe she’s so used to being self-sufficient that it’s blinded her to a real chance at her own happiness, separate from her friends and their needs. 

She barely hears Draco arrive and doesn’t acknowledge him until he’s wrapped her up from behind.

“Hi, sorry,” she says and turns into his arms.

“You alright? Something happen today?”

“Nothing really, just thinking. Harry…Harry apologized to me today.”

“For his hair or his wardrobe?”

“Draco.”

“What? They’re both equally offensive.”

She glares up at him, but he only grins and smooths her curls down her back. 

“So, what’s Potter sorry for then?”

“He thinks he’s been a bad friend lately. That I’m…that he’s taken me for granted.”

“Well, he has. All your lives. It was something I always noticed at school, how they’d treat you sometimes, Weasley and Potter. Their little pet swot who could save their arses when they needed, but Merlin forbid they help you with something.”

Hermione tries to jerk out of his arms as the childhood insecurity stings to hear out loud. 

“That’s not entirely fair.”

“I said sometimes, Granger. Besides, I can hardly throw stones when it comes to how you were treated at school.”

It’s her turn to tighten her hold. 

“You’ve already apologized. And I accepted. Now, help me prepare dinner.” She tugs him further into the kitchen. “If you’re going to have a sulk, you can at least do so while peeling the carrots.”

“I’m not sulking.”

“He said, sulkily.”

Draco flicks a carrot chunk in her direction. “Only making sure you know I regret it. All of it.”

“So you’ve said. And shown.”

They chop and cook quietly, Hermione bestowing a smile every now and then when she catches him watching her. When he passes by her to grab dishes, he runs a hand along her upper back and whispers a, “Thank you,” into her hair. 

 

This morning starts like most. Hermione rolls away from Draco’s embrace, starts the shower, he joins her and tries his best to delay her (which works more than half the time), then Hermione scrambles around the kitchen to make it on time. 

Each day she cuts it finer and finer and today, at least, it’s not Draco’s fault. He’s walked into the kitchen with his hair still damp and the top two buttons undone on his shirt and well, she’s only human. 

Hermione has him pressed against the wall with no concern for the time and only thoughts of his mouth and hands on her. 

“You’ll be late for work,” he mumbles against her throat.

“I have a few minutes yet,” she counters, with no basis to know if this is a fact. She grabs his face and yanks him into a rough kiss. 

“Keep kissing me like this and I will make you late for work.”

Draco tries to shove a thigh in between her legs but her pencil skirt is unfortunately in the way. With a wild look around the room, he zeros in on the kitchen table and pulls her along behind him.  

Taking a seat in the nearest chair, Draco rucks up her skirt then tugs her down onto his thigh. With firm, insistent hands, he grabs her hips, moving her back and forth along his leg until she’s desperately moving with him, trying to sate the need he created. 

“In the spirit of learning my preferences, I’ll confess I’m a rather territorial sort. I want to have you on every surface of our home.”

The thought makes her rock her hips faster. Thus far they’ve only explored each other in the bed and shower but she imagines all the lascivious possibilities yet to be realized on the sofa, on his desk, on her desk, or even on the sitting room carpet. 

She rides his thigh with abandon, the perfect friction her only goal, as Draco stares up at her in awe.

“That’s it, that’s it. Going to come for me, aren’t you? Right here in our kitchen?”

Her head lolls forward and she nuzzles into his neck. “Draco,” she sighs, letting the surge take her. 

“I’ve got you,” he says and her body ignites. 

Over his shoulder, she spots the latest bouquet in the foyer. A new message indicated with orange roses. 

Hermione eagerly reciprocates this sentiment the second Draco arrives home from work that evening by dropping to her knees and going for his belt buckle.

Desire and enthusiasm.

in these silent days10




Notes:

hiiiiiiiii thanks everyone for being patient, not sure when i'll be updating going forward, but wanted to at least get this one out before the holiday season. hope you enjoyed xx

bgonemydear is a god-tier beta and cheerleader :)

and for the love of everything, please shower abrilas.art with praise. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

im here: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 11: Chapter 11

Notes:

quick lil reminder that i don't have an update schedule. just doing what i can xx
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
Her hair has decided they are going to be late to the St. Mungo’s benefit ball. Still in only her slip, she suffers through attempt after attempt at an elegant up-do, determined to do so without any product. 

Hermione grabs sections of curls, twists them one way, then the other, but cannot find an angle that looks anything other than bunchy and frizzed out. 

She sticks a few pins in her hair, holds some in her mouth, and tries to wrangle more curls into submission, only to be met with defiance. This will need a practical and magical combination to succeed.

“Do you need an extra hand or two for all—that?”

Hermione glares at Draco’s reflection in the bathroom mirror and removes all the pins tangled in her hair and between her teeth. He’s already dressed, of course: a sleek black tux over which he’ll throw an outer robe. Hermione forgets about her hair woes as she openly ogles him leaning against the doorframe.

Draco saunters closer. “I think you do need the extra hands.” He volunteers his own for the job, running them up and down her sides, caressing her breasts, then sliding one strap off her shoulder. 

“This is not helping.”

“I beg to differ,” Draco says into her neck. “I’m helping myself.” 

Despite saying, “We’ll be horribly late,” Hermione tips her head back, granting him access to more skin.

He pecks her jaw. “Fine, we can finish this later.”

“If you’d actually like to help, could you grab my big clip for me?”

“Where is it?”

“Top drawer in my night stand.”

She hears the drawer open, rustling as he grabs the clip, then nothing more. It takes another minute of silence before Hermione remembers what rests right beneath that clip.

Draco doesn’t move or look up even as she rushes to the doorway. His gaze hasn’t left the signed Marriage Dissolution Form. The one she inked on their wedding day declaring her intent to break the union the second the three years end according to the law. 

“Eager, are we?” His accusation bites, chilled and sharp.  

“It’s not—I’m not—”

“Have you got a calendar pinned up in your study with the countdown to your freedom?”

“Don’t. This isn’t fair. This law isn’t fair to either of us.”

Draco closes the drawer and faces her. “I am trying. I am trying to give this a real chance. From the very start I have tried.”

“And who said you had to?”

Devastation doesn’t just flicker across his features—it contorts them. Her unintended cruelty wipes all impassiveness from him and Hermione has to witness the wreckage in his wide, disbelieving eyes. 

She swallows a lump in her throat and shakily explains. “I’ve never hidden how I felt about this situation. No matter what happens with—us—I’m going to keep fighting this law.”

Draco steps towards her. “And does it matter at all?”

“What?”

“Us.” He presses his advantage and crowds her against the wall. “What was I supposed to think? Can you blame me for assuming that you—that we—?”

Unsure of what she’s meant to do to fix any of this, Hermione’s hands find his shoulders as he leans in close. Firm hands cup her backside and he brings their bodies flush. With his mouth inches from hers, nose grazing her cheek, he takes a ragged inhale. 

“You say my name when you come. When I make you come.”

“Draco—”

“Ah, ah,” he chides. “Not like that.”

She expects more urgency with the way the anger and hurt seem to be simmering just beneath the surface. She expects him to kiss her like he has something to prove. But slow and gentle lips meet the side of her jaw and move down her neck. He finds that spot just below her ear that she didn’t know could be such an erogenous zone for her until it was Draco grazing his teeth along it. This man has spent time learning her body, learning her, and his practical application of that acquired knowledge has her panting within seconds. 

Both slip straps fall down her arms as Draco hitches her leg around his hip. Like the first time, and every time since, his touch has a drugging effect. His kisses induce brain-fog. 

They should…they should talk about this. The form…and…what he’s feeling. She needs to…explain or reassure…or…

But he’s stealing from her and she has no power to stop the theft. Words, apologies, thoughts, questions, all ripped from her. What is she to do when he rocks against her at the perfect angle? What is she to say when he holds her mouth hostage with his own? 

Her sole earthly tether is how Draco makes her feel. Hermione can only succumb to his passionate expertise: skilled hands that know where and how hard or soft to touch her. Two long fingers curling inside her, a broad thumb pressing against her clit, and lips sucking at her throat are the perfect tools in his well-stocked arsenal for making her fall apart for him. She clutches his head to her, not wanting to let go and not knowing how to communicate in anything other than sharp breaths. 

She slumps against the wall, sinks into the pleasure he bestows faithfully, a focused supplicant at her altar. But she’s the one with a reverent prayer to recite aloud. 

“Draco.”

“There it is.”

He yanks his fingers from her knickers and stalks into the bathroom. She hears the tap turn on as he washes his hands while she tries to think through the last few minutes. Chest heaving, her brain stutters to life again and she’s paralyzed with uncertainty at both how she should proceed and how to interpret Draco’s behavior. 

He stands in the doorway, backlit by the bathroom light; refined, well-dressed—he would make for an imposing silhouette if not for the unabashed hurt. 

“It mattered to me.”

His voice is steady, yet raw, and he sweeps determinedly past her. Hermione fixes her slip and scrambles down the hall after him.

“Wait. Please.”

Steps away from the fireplace, Draco stops but doesn’t turn around. “What for? To hear how I mean nothing to you?” 

Hermione approaches with caution, wondering if at any moment he’ll either apparate away from her or quickly throw down Floo powder. She reaches for his hand, disappointed when it remains limp, but at least he doesn’t recoil from her touch. 

“I can’t just ignore the circumstances that forced us together. But I also can’t ignore how I feel about you.”

“And how do you feel about me?” 

The emotionless tone stabs her in the chest. She knows a protection instinct when she hears one and it’s a twisting knife that he’s using one with her. 

“Terrified,” Hermione says with a nervous half-laugh. “I’ve never…I’ve never needed another person so badly in all my life. And it’s more—so much more—than just being attracted to you.”

His fingers twitch in her hand and the reflex reminds her instantly of their wedding day. When she held his trembling hands and wondered what it meant then. 

“This entire time,” she continues, “from the first day, you’ve always seemed like you were one step—actually make that several steps—ahead of me in this. And I guess I’ve never really understood why.”

He drops her hand and turns around. 

“I knew your birthday because I actually read the Ministry fact sheet they sent with our match letter. I commissioned our birthstone rings because it’s a Black family tradition that I wanted done at the only wedding I may ever have.” He points to the mantel. “And I’m smiling at you in that photo because you looked beautiful and so I pretended for one second of my life that something had gone right for me. That I wasn’t me and you weren’t you. And maybe part of me does sink into now and then. The little domestic fantasy I wanted for myself.”

She reaches for him then and it’s a mutual melding, a joint surrender. Draco drops his forehead to hers. 

“Maybe part of me believes you mean it when you kiss me,” he says and her grip tightens on his upper arms. 

“Of course I mean it. I always mean it.”

He pulls up slightly with a pained grimace. “I am sorry. I’m sorry about this law and how it’s made you feel that your life is over.”

“Yes, the law. The law makes me feel that way. But not you.” Hermione cups his face. “What am I to you?”

Draco takes her left hand and kisses her wedding band. “My wife.”

“But that’s what I’ve been legally ordered to be. I want to know if I’m something other than a placeholder for a specific role you envisioned.”

“You’re not a ‘what,’” he says with a scowl. “You’re not a trinket I worked to procure, or something that brings me status. You are meant to be my equal, even if you are my better. I was fortunate enough that my magic sought yours, that it pointed me to you. Because who would ever choose me?”

“Draco—”

“It was a chance for me to have a match based on something other than my money or my surname or my parents’ wishes. And I took it. Selfishly, I cannot deny, but I’ve never been anything else.” His eyes dart behind her and his face falls. “That form…am I too late?”

“For what?”

“Have you already decided then?”

“Yes.”

“I see.”

“I’ve decided that I get a choice, too. Not the compatibility test, not the Ministry, I’m the one choosing.” Her lower lip wobbles and she buries her face in Draco’s chest. His arms automatically wind around her. “It isn’t magic that drew me to you, nor this forced situation. It’s you. Exactly as you are.”

Her voice trembles and a few tears leak onto his pristine shirt. Something breaks inside her, but not in a painful, damaging way. Relief courses through her as inner honesty cracks open the part of her she foolishly tried to seal off. She doesn’t quite have the words yet for the intense and all-consuming feeling he inspires and it would be unfair to both of them for her to haltingly offer something half-hearted.

Instead, she fists his jacket lapels and crashes their lips together. Careful thumbs brush aside her lingering tears even as he eagerly reciprocates. His happy sigh into her mouth almost makes her knees give way. 

With dazed, blurry eyes, Hermione spies the wall clock. 

“We’re going to miss the ball.”

“I don’t care,” he says and hoists her up. “I’ll write them a check.”

Draco carries her to the couch where she straddles his lap. As gorgeous as he looks in formalwear, Hermione needs his bare skin, needs only him, all of him, touching her. When she finally has every article off him and thrown carelessly around the room and her slip and knickers join the pile, a rushing affection barrels through her. 

Hermione cards her fingers through his hair as she lowers onto his cock. 

“I want—I need you to know,” she says as she slowly moves up and down, “that I’m not—just  here—for this.”

“Good,” he says, tugging her in for a kiss. There’s more to be said between them, Hermione at least thinks so, but this unhurried, indulgent lovemaking is taking priority. They watch each other almost the entire time, Hermione only squeezing her eyes shut when she crests, then reaps the reward of Draco’s wild gaze as he chases his own climax. Hermione meets him movement for movement, hoping to reassure with caresses what she doesn’t yet know how to verbalize. 

He says her name when he finishes, face buried in her breasts, a harsh exhale that hits her skin but then pierces much deeper. Their arms lock into place around each other, prolonging the connection as their breathing slows and heartbeats calm. Draco removes her from his lap to cradle her against his sweat-slicked chest. The safety and warmth of him should lull her, pull her into slumber’s stupor. Instead, curiosity surges forward. 

She kisses just over his heart to get attention. “Do you think one day we’ll have a…a real relationship?”

He doesn’t seem offended by her question. “How so?”

“Not that it isn’t real now,” she hurries to clarify. “But the way the two of us were forced together…could we ever actually love each other? Do you think?”

She does not expect him to laugh. It begins as a rumbling in his chest then pours out of him, loud, hearty, and limb-shaking.

With a sigh and a fond look, he pushes damp curls off her forehead. “Yes. Yes I do.”

He gently sets her to standing and hands her the discarded slip. Pulling on his trunks and trousers he moves to the hallway. “I want to show you something.”

Hermione follows him to his study where he selects a book from a high shelf.

“Here,” he says and presses Familial Magic: Traditional Rites & Rituals into her hands. “It’s not taught at Hogwarts, so unless the evolution of magical culture was ever an extracurricular interest, you wouldn’t have come across most of these customs.”

Hermione flips through the first half, noting the different sections on major life events like birth, betrothal, marriage, and death. 

“Does your family practice all of these?”

“Not many, though my mother is a fervent believer in the old magicks. Core compatibility is big with her, so she might have been shocked at our match, but she accepted it. While my father…didn’t accept it then and I doubt he ever will. I certainly don’t care if he does.”

Hermione absently strokes his arm with her free hand. 

“These are all common among pureblood lines?”

“This is just a generic text, not an heirloom one. You’d love to get your hands on some of the ancestral ones, I imagine, to see how different families altered rites based on their own beliefs or abilities. The Malfoy family one is at the Manor.” 

Draco pries the book from her and flips to the match-making section. “Traditionally, each family would perform a variation on this type of charm before a marriage. But the practice died out when it turned out purebloods weren’t always so compatible.”

He draws Hermione’s eye to a passage on recording magical signatures. 

“That was part of the Ministry process,” she recalls.

“I suspect that’s the spellwork they used combined with information about our wand cores.”

“That would give insight into a caster’s temperament,” concedes Hermione.  

“Exactly. Compatibility doesn’t necessarily mean romantic. It’s more whether…whether your dispositions would be suited for a strong connection. Much as I loathe the thought, I imagine you’d have high compatibility with Potter, for example, based on your friendship.”

Hermione stifles a giggle as he scowls and re-shelves the book. 

“Thank you for sharing that with me.” She means it, too. Another previously unknowable part of him that his self-consciousness and cautiousness kept from her. 

“I know you don’t believe in it. But I’ve always wondered at how wands choose us. Why couldn’t that same sort of sentience apply to our magic seeking out other magical beings for us?”

“Yes, but if we’re speaking of using it for relationship purposes, it still requires each person to see the good in the other. To want the compatibility, to believe they could work together.”

She’s no longer speaking in abstract concepts and he knows it. Now that she’s made the theoretical personal, Draco reaches for her. His touch finds her waist, molds to her body.

“I looked for those things,” he says, quiet and careful. “Perhaps to you it felt like blind acceptance on my end, but that wasn’t it. I wanted to know what my magic saw in you so I looked for things I liked. And gods if I didn’t find…everything.”

Hermione never thought she could stomach open adoration before. But Draco’s eyes rake over her face as if she’s priceless and precious and she finds it’s not difficult in the least. 

“I don’t know how to define what we are,” Hermione admits. “That doesn’t mean I don’t want to be with you. Quite the opposite, in fact.”

It’s the closest thing to a promise she can make for now. 

Draco’s hand slides up to cradle her cheek. “I…I think we’re good together. Despite what you may have thought about my initial welcoming attitude, I did have doubts, too. But it’s not just the core magic, it’s…you. And I—”

He cuts off, looking embarrassed and frustrated that he can’t quite find the words. Hermione takes pity on him. He’s shared more than enough tonight. 

“I’ll expect a new bouquet tomorrow, shall I?”

He rolls his eyes, but she catches a reluctant grin as he turns away. 

Red chrysanthemums await her the next day. 

Now, she understands his laughter from last night. The joke at her expense. 

Love. 

He hasn’t asked for a response, not once, to his flower messages and she knows he doesn’t require one here. He’s not waiting on an answer, nor putting forth pressure or expectations. It’s a true offering of himself, if she’s open to him.

Hermione is past her initial naivete with Draco. She knows it’s no longer an “if” but a “when.”

 

“Happy birthday.”

Hermione says this to Draco several times on his actual birthday: when she straddles him that morning in bed, when they get home from work in the evening and she’s already waiting back in bed for him, naked. Again when she presents him with his gifts: several more curse-breaking texts she knows he doesn’t already own, and a smaller, more sentimental item.

A mini Norwegian Ridgeback curls up in his palm as he scoops the model dragon out of the box.

“Not as big as I imagine Hephaestus was,” Hermione says, “but I thought you might appreciate her all the same.”

“An interesting breed choice,” he says with a wry smile.

“You remember then?”

“Quite difficult to forget the reason for my first ever detention. You, me, Potter, Longbottom…searching for a unicorn corpse in the Forbidden Forest. A lovely evening, not traumatizing in the slightest.”

“I’d always wondered how you knew. That Hagrid had that dragon egg in his hut.”

“You three were hardly as inconspicuous as you thought. And I’d never seen a dragon before.”

“So you thought it’d be fun to spy on us and get us in trouble as a bonus?” Hermione teases.

Draco watches as the toy dragon stretches its wings and nuzzles his hand.

“Of course. But I was also wildly jealous of Potter.”

“Please,” Hermione laughs, “I’m sure you went home that summer and bullied your parents into taking you to a dragon preserve or something ridiculous.”

“I didn’t envy him the dragon,” Draco murmurs and tips the Ridgeback onto the table. Hermione has barely recovered from that admission when he says, “And speaking of friends, are you sure you want to come on Saturday?”

She allows him the segue. “Of course I'm sure. If they don’t mind.”

“They’re looking forward to it,” Draco says and Hermione swallows down her nerves. If she can survive weekly dinners at Malfoy Manor, then surely she can survive one evening with Draco’s friends. They’ve put off mixing with their respective friend groups long enough, and this small gathering to celebrate Draco’s birthday seems like a natural introduction for her as Draco’s…person he legally married who is also now dating him. Or something. 

Dinner with Draco’s parents goes as usual, though with the added bonus of witnessing Lucius Malfoy eat birthday cake as begrudgingly as if resisting an Imperius Curse. On the other hand, Hermione wouldn’t put it past Narcissa.

Before they leave through the Floo for the Parkinson Estate, Draco tries to give her one more out. 

“You really don’t need to—”

Hermione cuts him off with a kiss. “If you try to coddle me one more time I will hex you.”

When she spins out of a large hearth after him, Hermione finds herself in a sumptuous, high-ceilinged room. Her eyes find Draco’s immediately and then she sees the rest of the group waiting for introductions. 

No one says a word until Draco coughs lightly. “I’m sure you all remember Granger. Hermione.” 

Seven pairs of eyes stare back at him, then at her. Someone finally snorts and then says, “Seems we all need a reintroduction. I’m Blaise.”

Blaise steps forward and shakes her hand, his wife, Celine, does the same. The rest keep their distance as they sound off with curt greetings and their names: Theo and Astoria Nott, Greg and Millicent Goyle. Hermione looks back at faces she hasn’t seen since Hogwarts and tries to remove those youthful memories threatening to filter over these adults. 

“Wait,” Theo says, “I forgot to practice on Granger. Bun sour!” He incites groans from everyone except a perplexed Hermione. 

“Bon. Soir,” Celine patiently corrects, exaggerating her pronunciation. 

“Yes, that,” he cheerfully agrees. 

“It’s been months of this. Months. I swear he’s doing it on purpose,” says Astoria.

“Good to know his idiocy is the purposeful kind,” says a droll voice that until now has been silent.

Pansy Parkinson is chic in an intimidating way. Where the others are all in robes, she’s opted for a silk blouse and form-fitting, dragonhide trousers. Her features have softened from what Hermione remembers, but a sharp black bob and bold make-up give her enviable angles. She’s somehow both harsh and delicate simultaneously, porcelain that could cut just right if not handled carefully. 

“Hello Pansy,” Hermione says. “Thank you for inviting me.”

“Draco insisted.” She taps an impatient heeled foot. “Are we going to spend the rest of the evening staring at Granger? Or can we finally pour some drinks?”

They disperse to a well-stocked bar and then arrange themselves around the room on couches and chaises. Hermione wonders if this is how an evening in the Slytherin common room might have looked, though instead of a chilly dungeon it’s a surprisingly warm and bright sitting room. 

“Draco, I had my kitchen make all your favorites,” says Pansy and waves a careless hand at a buffet table. “But I’m sure you’re not hungry. Dinner at Malfoy Manor is always divine.” She turns to Astoria. “Remember, Astoria? You used to be a frequent guest.”

“Ages ago,” says Astoria with a cautious, almost apologetic smile at Hermione. 

“Pansy,” says Draco, and Hermione detects the edge in his tone, “how about if we—”

“If we all act bloody normal,” she interrupts irritably. “You don’t have to hover over her, she’s a grown witch. Go talk business with Blaise and Greg like you usually would. I have some wicked gossip to share with Millie and Celine, and Granger can sit with the Notts and hear all about their perfect, precious unborn child with a patience none of us possess.”

It is terribly funny, at least to Hermione, how they all perform their task to the letter on Pansy’s command. Not being privy to the inner workings of the friend group, Hermione wonders if with Draco evolving so much post-war and traveling abroad, that it left space for the more domineering Pansy to ascend as leader of their posse.

Draco’s hand doesn’t leave hers, even as he interacts with his friends. The only change she registers is the gradual loosening grip as he seemingly becomes more comfortable in their company. 

Hermione does find Theo and Astoria to be a welcome refuge from the permeating awkwardness of being an outsider. They’re eager to talk about their nursery decor and Hermione shares a few anecdotes about little James Potter.

Every few minutes, she feels Draco casting anxious glances her way, but the instances become fewer and fewer as the night extends on and he finally seems to relax, getting into a heated discussion with Blaise about international exchange rates. 

But it’s Pansy who intrigues her most. She saunters between different groups and conversations, topping off drinks and doling out acerbic remarks, ensuring her friends are both well catered to and humbled in turn. She keeps her distance from Hermione most of the night, but eventually plops down on her other side and lights a long, thin cigarette. 

“Pansy,” Theo says in exasperation and points to Astoria’s stomach. “The baby.”

Pansy rolls her eyes and stands. “I see parenthood is only going to make you more tedious.” She stands, grabbing a champagne bottle out of a chilled bucket. “Come on, Granger, we’re drinking on the balcony.”

Save Draco, no one else seems to think this an odd demand, and Hermione is too curious not to follow Pansy outside. She leaves Draco with a dismissive, “I promise it’s fine.”

Hermione finds Pansy leaning over the balcony’s edge, blowing smoke into the night air. They don’t speak as she enjoys her cigarette, dragging and puffing delicately in turn.

“We need glasses,” she eventually says with a pointed look at Hermione.

Hermione takes out her wand, conjures two, and catches how Pansy’s eyes watch her spellwork. 

“Do you miss it?”

“Every second.” Pansy flicks her stub off the balcony. “But gods, it was worth it.”

Hermione hands her a glass, unsure if she’s feeling envy, admiration or both. She nods her head towards the group inside. 

“You could have married him. Draco. I’m sure he would have done that for you.”

Pansy lets out a mirthless laugh. “Then we both would have been miserable. And I don’t want to be married. Not to him, not to anyone.”

“What is it that you do? Draco said you own and run several family businesses.”

“Why Granger I’m surprised he neglected to tell you I’m handling all your laundry and cleaning.”

“You what?”

“As if I’d be the one actually handling that shite. No, Granger, my family owns a housekeeping and laundering business, it’s how I afford all this.” She waves her glass over the spectacular manicured gardens just below them.  “With my parents gone, I’m solely responsible for it all. It’s fantastic.” 

Now Hermione can concede that she is in fact envious of this secure, poised Pansy with the financial freedom to carry on wandless and not suffer the consequences of singledom. 

“Well,” Pansy drawls, “how have you found us so far? Appropriately de-clawed enough to not scare you away?”

“De-fanged more like,” Hermione parries back and Pansy raises a brow in what might be amusement.

“Draco read us the riot act last week, warned us all to be on our best behavior.”

“That was hardly necessary,” Hermione says. “Truthfully the only one of you who frightened me was Millicent. She put me in a headlock in Second Year.”

“Did she? Millie?”

“To be fair to her, I had tried to correct her spellwork in the middle of a dueling lesson.”

“Ah, so she just followed through on what everyone in our year wanted to do at some point.”

Draco spies her through the glass and looks ready to stage a rescue attempt until Hermione waves him off. Pansy flips him off. 

She hands Hermione the champagne bottle to top up their drinks. “He’s in love with you.”

“I know.” 

“You’re still fighting it, aren’t you? The law?”

“I am.”

She thinks that might earn her a scathing, protective quip in Draco’s defense, but Pansy only takes a long sip and says, “Good.”

Hermione presses her luck. “You could help if you wanted. The Ministry and the public are sick of hearing about it from me.”

That humorless laugh again. “Granger, no one wants to hear from a disgraced pureblood heiress who gave up her wand as willingly as she tried to give up Harry Potter to the Dark Lord. You don’t need me.”

“I don’t think that’s true. I think you’d be a great asset and—”

“Gods, you still are the obnoxiously self-righteous sort, aren’t you?” Pansy downs the remainder of her drink. “Recruiting me into your crusade isn’t what you need, nor would it even work.”

“But have you considered—?”

“Are you enjoying the bouquets he leaves you?”

“Yes,” Hermione says impatiently. “They’re beautiful. He’s very thoughtful. But—”

“Glad to know my work hasn’t been in vain,” Pansy says with a smirk, then shoves away from the balcony. “I own a florist, too.” She struts back inside. 

Hermione rejoins as well, and quietly takes her place beside Draco. She only half-listens to the conversations taking place around her, preferring to observe. She’s not usually a passive participant in group settings, but replaying her chat with Pansy is taking up her mental energy. Plus, it gives her a chance to watch Draco slowly sink into familiarity with these people who have known him longer, and possibly better, than her. 

He’s still slightly haughty, especially when speaking with Goyle and Blaise, she notes. Any warmth in his voice is reserved for Theo, who he treats almost gently. Things with Astoria are polite and surface level, much like with the other women. Except Pansy. They have a back and forth not unlike bickering siblings at times. She’ll save this observation for when she wants to annoy Draco, but it reminds her of her friendship with Ron.  

When they say their farewells later, it seems she’s mostly regarded kindly by the group at large. She forces her mind to banish the anxiety knowing that the second she leaves, they’re all going to discuss her and Draco. 

“Ow river!” says Theo. As they whirl away through the flames, Hermione hears several irritated voices correct him: “Au revoir!” “For fuck’s sake, Theo!”

As they undress and ready for bed, Hermione’s heart swells when she notices Draco discreetly sliding something from his pocket into his hand. Her sentimental suspicions are confirmed when she returns from brushing her teeth to see the small Ridgeback snoozing on Draco’s nightstand. 

“Did you have fun tonight?” Hermione asks as she settles into Draco’s arms. 

“I think it went all right.” He shifts a bit. “You were outside for quite awhile with Pansy. What did she—?”

“I liked them. Your friends.”

“All of them?” He asks, though she knows he’s only asking about one. 

“Yes.”

“Would you consider joining us again?”

“On one condition.”

“Name it.”

“Brunch with my friends next weekend.”

He groans petulantly and grumbles, “Fine.”

Apart from celebrating Draco’s birthday, meeting with his friends served another purpose tonight for Hermione. It’s another blank filled, another piece uncovered in deciphering the man holding her. 

She likes the picture that’s forming, more and more each day.


in these silent days11




Notes:

thank you for reading and apologies for not replying to comments as i usually have done. i so so so appreciate every single one xx

bgonemydear is a benevolent comma god and fantastic friend <3

abrilas.art is amazing, god look at this chapter art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

im here: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 12: Chapter 12

Notes:

NSFW art warning for this chapter, scroll carefully, friends!
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
“I think it went better today, don’t you?”

“Well, I wasn’t poisoned this time.”

Hermione clucks her tongue. “Ron only joked about poisoning you that very first time, relax. Didn’t stop you from having seconds today, did it?”

Draco grumbles something incoherent that includes the words “bastard’s a damned fine baker” and “still a ginger knob.”

She pretends not to hear the childish remarks as they return from their latest get-together with Hermione’s friends. 

It’s gone…tolerably. There’s certainly room for improvement as far as peaceful relations between Draco and her friends go. Ginny excels at toeing the line between playful banter and outright insults, but the same cannot be said for Ron or Harry. At least with Harry it appears accidental, as if his brain hasn’t quite yet caught on to the fact he’s meant to be civil and still operates under a “must irritate Malfoy” function. The stilted quidditch discussions seem to bridge the awkwardness, even if Ron is determined to take offense at literally every word out of Draco’s mouth. 

Luna, per usual, exists at the opposite end of the spectrum from her husband. Her overly familiar warmth (“Granger, she hugged me. For three straight minutes, I counted.”) lends a balance to Ron’s surliness. 

But no one has thrown hexes yet and so Hermione is going to call it a success. 

“Come to my study for a moment?”

Hermione follows and watches as Draco shuffles parchment on his desk before looking up at her. She already knows what he’s going to say next and bites back a smile. Draco might have thought he was nonchalant enough to carry it off, but she’s seen through him. 

“Would you want to come with me?”

It’s the first time he’s asked outright. She’d picked up enough hints over the past few weeks and normally would have followed up, but knowing she has to decline tamped down the inclination.

Draco received a request to accompany a wealthy Dutch couple on a week-long auction circuit through a few cities in Belgium and then to Monaco. The Van Buytens, he’s told her, were one of the first private antiquities sellers to give him a chance and, since those early days of his career, have been reliable and enthusiastic patrons of his services. This annual trip is an opportunity he can’t decline, both from a reputation and gold-earning perspective. 

And oh how Hermione wishes she could go. She could while away the hours he has to work by exploring new cities, joining him and the older couple for lavish dinners that would run late into the evening. She’d fill her days with museums, art galleries, and local markets, and her nights with Draco at what sounded like lively bidding spectacles complete with music, dancing, and champagne. 

But she has a final draft of her Wolfsbane measure at the ready. All she needs now is confirmation of a docket opening for a Wizengamot legislative session and she can marshal her planned testimonials, craft her speech. This close to her goal, she cannot afford complacency. Especially in the form of a European holiday with a troublingly attractive man. 

Hermione smiles sadly. “I wish I could, but these next few weeks are critical. I fear traveling would be too distracting.”

She rakes her eyes up and down his body and he leers. 

“The traveling would be distracting?”

“Quite,” she says as her face heats. 

"Next time, then. I think you’d get on well with them. They are rather fond of me, or perhaps they are rather fond of all the gold I earn for them at auctions.”

Draco finishes organizing his papers and ties them neatly with string. 

“They’ve been trying to lure me to set up permanently on the Continent for years now. I swear, the accommodations, the dinners, everything gets a little more outrageous each time. They'll even try to once again set me up with one of their innumerable nieces."

Hermione’s eyes narrow. "Repeat that last bit?"

"You’re not jealous?"

“No.” Her lie is too sharp, too fast.

"You are. Come here.” 

Hermione rounds the desk to stand between his knees. Draco’s hands come up to grip her waist.

“It makes sense for a woman like you to be possessive." His thumbs draw tight circles. “Hasn’t that always been your way?” He leans forward, pressing a kiss to her navel. “I think you like it when something is only yours.” His fingers slide under her jumper, ghosting along her skin. “I used to think it was your typical swotty tendencies but it’s more than that.” 

Draco stands, then angles his head down to kiss the corner of her mouth. “It’s a rush for you to be the only one capable of answering a question or solving a riddle or”—he kisses the other corner—” be the unquestionable sole owner of something. Very only-child of you.”

"Are you seducing me or psychoanalyzing me?"

"Bit of both. It's quite fun." His knuckles trail along her jaw. "Should news of my marriage to a well-known witch not have made it to their ears, I do think the wedding ring might be a giveaway."

“I should think so, yes,” Hermione says, attempting to sound prim, but all the kissing and gentle caressing has left her far too breathless.

"And should that not deter anyone, I confess I would delight in informing the more bold among them that I am very, very taken.” Draco turns her then sweeps her hair aside to kiss her neck. 

“Utterly unavailable,” he adds and, with a light pressure to her back, bends her over his desk. “Stay just like that for me.”

He retreats and Hermione hears the chair creak as he sits down. 

“I’m going to Vanish your clothes now.”

“Okay,” she exhales more than says, her breath briefly fogging the glossy wooden surface. The next second, a rush of magic leaves her bare, her skin pebbling where it touches the hard desk.

Nothing happens for several long moments, and the anticipation has Hermione’s heart rate picking up speed. She almost startles when Draco’s dragon-hide shoe toes at her calf, nudging her legs into a wider stance.

“What are you doing?” she finally asks.

“Committing this view to memory.”

“It’s only a week.”

“Nine days.”

His belt buckle clinks and the temptation wins out. Hermione raises her head and glances back to see Draco closing his fist around his cock.

“Eyes front, Granger.”

She obeys, deciding to give this new experience a chance. Hermione’s eyes close and this helps her concentrate on the sounds behind her. 

And God, the noises alone are almost too much. She can hear his shallow breathing and pictures the rise and fall of his chest, the flush high on his cheekbones. She hears the slide of skin against skin and imagines how he’s gripping himself, working his hand up and down. His pace sounds slow for now, as if he’s deliberately savoring the sight before him. Are his eyes focused solely on her arse? Or does his gaze rove, bestowing appreciation on her thighs and hips too? The thrill from being a live muse is doing wonders for her confidence, as she imagines those long fingers flexing and squeezing. 

Hermione squirms, unable to get any friction and desperate for it. She’s rewarded with a low groan and the absolutely filthy thought enters her mind about the sounds Draco might make if her arousal were to drip down her open legs.

“Do you know how badly I want to spoil you?” he says, voice a low rasp. “I want to buy you the most ridiculous, superfluous things.”

Hermione almost quips about that only-child tendency he threw at her earlier, but instead silently considers his observations. Had Draco read her correctly? 

Because she does like the genuine praise that accompanies her knowledge sharing. It’s certainly preferable to the mockery or envy that she’d endured instead. She remembers the other secret that Slytherin’s locket liked to whisper in a hypnotic, lulling voice. When it couldn’t get her to fold via reminding her of her “otherness”, of her unworthiness, it instead appealed to her ambition. 

“You are special, Hermione Granger. Entirely unique. These boys would be so lost without you, can’t you see? You alone have the intellect to harness more magical power, do not let your small-minded friends keep you from your full potential. They have always slowed you down. Tell me, brightest witch, haven’t you always dreamed of something greater? The things I could show you and only you.”

It caused her great shame, to think she ever entertained the temptation put forth by the Horcrux, to have it pervert and twist her desire to learn in this way. But upon further reflection and seeing how Draco views her, she knows that how it actually manifests is delighting in people needing her. 

Hermione can easily envision Draco hundreds of miles away, surrounded by eager, doting admirers. Yet, knowing he will callously dispatch any untoward interest because of their relationship not only tempers her jealousy, but excites her.

Draco brings her back to the present with another groan and a muttered swear. 

“As gorgeous as you’d look in all sorts of jewelry, I know that’s not to your taste.”

“I neither want nor need all that.”

“What do you need?”

“I just need you…to touch me.” 

The “you” reverberates over and over in her mind, sounding so loud in her head that she’s glad Draco is behind her and can’t see it written all over her face.

The confession sits just there, at the edge of her mouth, threatening to sprint past parted lips. When Draco squares her hips and enters her, Hermione gasps out something unintelligible instead of the truth. 

The truth is a flame of needs, wants, and an intense, frightening possessiveness for this man. She douses it with cold practicality and common sense, but as always, a flicker remains, in constant danger of setting ablaze. 

 

in these silent days12

 

Draco stands in front of the Floo, fiddling with the latch on his valise. 

“Have everything you need?” Hermione asks. 

“I believe so.”

She gives him an encouraging smile. “Try to have some fun. I know you’ve missed the travel this past year.”

“Honestly, I have. And on that note…” He finally looks at her. “I know our wedding wasn’t—traditional. None of this has been. But I feel like we could use a honeymoon.”

“A honeymoon,” she repeats neutrally.

He immediately changes his tack. “A trip, a holiday, call it what you like.”

He averts his gaze again, plays for time with his cufflinks.

“I’m not opposed to the idea,” Hermione says. 

"We could do Australia? Visit your parents?"

"No. Somewhere new. Somewhere neither of us has been before.”

Other ideas almost spill out of her. About how they could do other typical couple things too, not just work events or auctions. 

“We can visit them, though,” Draco says. “Whenever you like. A few portkeys are all it would take. Save them the hassle of coming all the way here.”

Hermione isn’t sure why he’s bringing this all up now when he has to leave in a few minutes. 

“And you’d…want to do that?”

He tenses again. “I wouldn’t suggest it if I didn’t.”

“It’s just…their whole world is Muggle. It wouldn’t be like the trips you’re used to, you understand.”

“Granger,” he says with a bite of impatience, “I’m perfectly aware that your parents are Muggles and therefore will adjust my trip expectations accordingly. I’m happy to visit them with you if you’d be all right with me coming along.”

“Well, you’d of course come along, they think we’re really married, it’s just—” She tilts her head and considers him. "You constantly surprise me."

His face pinches in distaste. “Are you always waiting for me to be terrible?”

“Of course not, Draco, I…” She rubs her temple. “I don’t want to argue, please. Not right before you leave.”

“Fine. We can talk when I return if you're still—if that still interests you at all.”

Hermione catches his hand and softly voices her suspicion. “Are you always waiting for me to leave?”

Draco doesn’t look at her, just squeezes her hand and drops it. “I have to go. I have a portkey waiting.”

"Right. Have a good trip."

He checks his watch and sighs. “Our timing was never going to be right, was it?”

“Draco, I—” Hermione fumbles with both her words and emotions, “I feel as if we’re only ever talking around…us. Perhaps…perhaps it’ll be good to have a—a bit of a break or, not a break but you know, just this little time apart for—um—to think.”

She can’t be sure how he takes this inelegant statement as he only nods once. He at least turns and kisses her soft as anything, sugar melting on her tongue. But when he’s spun away leaving her alone in the flat, she can’t help but be reminded of the night he found the Marriage Dissolution Form. How he’d seemed to immediately give her what he thought she wanted from him: physical affection and nothing more. 

In the ensuing silence of his departure, Hermione doesn’t know which hurts more: his lowered expectations or the way he’s misunderstood her. 

 

 

When she wakes the next day after a restless night, still there is only silence filling her days.

In that silence, Hermione feels Draco’s absence keenly: in the missing toiletries from the shower, the single-serving dinners she cooks, the empty study across the hall from hers. 

Hermione works appallingly late for two nights straight, hoping the distraction of the office will keep her from dwelling on the loneliness of her home. The bed has become insultingly large, taunting her with the extra space meant to be occupied by Draco. 

Part of her resents the despair, how swiftly she’s turned to pining. She’d spent years on her own and hadn’t that been fine? She’d been all right keeping her own counsel, living happily enough without this inconvenient yearning for another person. 

Without him around, Hermione would have thought she’d have a clear head with which to evaluate how she feels about the relationship. Instead, an inconsolable ache develops beneath her skin and spreads like a curse in her bloodstream. There are Draco-specific interactions missing from her daily routine, a weird chasm quick to be filled with gloom. 

He’ll return within a week but that also presents as a point of stress: Hermione laments all that’s unsaid between them, but she doesn’t know what to give him if he’s afraid to ask for it. 

 

 

The Daily Prophet greets her in the morning with proof of their successful partnership. It’s a triple strike: a Court member, the head of Magical Transportation, and another Minister’s aide all embroiled in a Quidditch betting scheme.   

While that’s excellent news in and of itself, Hermione notices the byline is not one of the reporters she gave to Draco. This writer typically churns out pro-Ministry pieces, but this latest article has quite the tone shift. Whereas other government stories simply reported these recent sackings as sole incompetent actors, now it seems they’re questioning the capabilities of the Lance administration. 

Hermione buzzes with excitement for the rest of the day, buoyed by the seed of hope. Perhaps the public would start connecting the corruption dots and voice their dissatisfaction or, at the very least, question the group in power.

Her exhilaration is short-lived, killed the moment she returns home after work. 

Hermione spins out of the Floo and though she doesn’t scream, it’s a near thing. Someone is waiting for her, standing right in the middle of the sitting room, and Hermione almost draws her wand, more in response to the aura of haughty entitlement than her surprise. 

She resists arming herself, not wanting to give Lucius Malfoy the satisfaction of frightening her in her own home. 

“Draco isn’t here,” Hermione says automatically in greeting. “He’s out of the country until next week.”

“I’m aware, Miss Granger.”

“It’s Hermione or Mrs. Granger-Malfoy. What do you want?”

Lucius tilts his head and regards her with wry amusement at the brusqueness. But without Draco present, Hermione feels no inclination to keep peace for his sake. 

“A proper hostess would have offered me tea.”

“I know plenty of reputable tea rooms in Diagon if you’d like a recommendation.”

Lucius smirks and it reminds Hermione of her previous observation that Draco resembles his mother. She understands now that Draco’s entire adolescence was a learned pantomime, a desperate bid to look and act just like his father.

“To business then.” Lucius walks around the couch in a careful approach. “I think we both know that you have no intention of giving my son an heir. In fact, our family would prefer that you did not.”

“What charmingly disgusting phrasing. My marriage is none of your concern.”

Hermione is on the move now too, away from the fireplace, beginning a sort of slow circling around the room.

“So many rumors going round about you these days. One wonders what to believe,” says Lucius.

“In my experience, those of lesser intellect are the ones who pay the most heed to gossip,” Hermione counters, hoping to shake loose the reason for this attempt at intimidation. 

Lucius scowls, giving Hermione a satisfactory jolt to her bravery. If this man thought he could ambush her with scare tactics and insinuations, he has another thing coming.

“This…werewolf,” he lingers on the word, distaste imbued in every syllable, “legislation. It’ll be a close vote. Can you afford to not have an absolute guarantee? Can those children you’re trying to help?”

“What do you want?”

A trickle of fear returns, but she cannot back down now. They both continue their measured journey round the room, Lucius’ boots clicking loudly against the hardwood.

“Simple. I will pay for a separate apartment for you. You will leave my son alone with the exception of public functions for appearances’ sake. When these three years are finally up, you will sign the contract dissolving the marriage.” He pauses, sneering at their framed wedding photo as he passes the mantel. “In return, not only will your living expenses be paid, but I can guarantee this legislation goes through with a few well-placed donations.”

“Bribes are not donations,” Hermione immediately argues and Lucius shrugs. 

This is a bold form of cowardice, Hermione realizes, struggling to quell her fury. Waiting for Draco to be gone so he could corner Hermione, taking care to have them alone and away from Narcissa overhearing, and the disturbing transactional nature of the entire request has Hermione itching to cast any number of insidious jinxes. 

She maintains her composure even as she fights to keep her voice even. “How did you get in?”

“I apparated.”

“Congratulations on regaining your license.”

Lucius inclines his head. “Sometimes you only need the right personnel willing to listen to reason. The Ministry can be quite the bureaucratic maze unless one knows how to navigate it.”

“You mean unless you can find the right person who will accept your gold for favors?”

“Such baseless accusations,” chides Lucius. “And would you care to hear what others are accusing you of?”

Hermione cannot help it this time, her fingers find her wand and close around it. Lucius takes her silence for assent and continues. 

“Running roughshod over higher-ups. Blackmail and coercion to get your way. Ruining reputations left and right with this nefarious whisper campaign you’re waging against any who would seek to oppose you. It’s not made you very popular with most of the older Wizengamot members.”

“They already hated me for simply existing,” says Hermione in a flat voice. “Or for opposing their horrid views. I haven’t blackmailed anyone, so unless you can tell me—”

“Ah, but it has not escaped their notice that your marriage has come with some political benefits.” 

“A marriage they forced upon me.”

Lucius goes on as if she hasn’t interrupted. “I am urging you to use those benefits now to pass your silly law and then leave my family in peace.”

Hermione scoffs. “Benefits. You’re trying to force an ultimatum on me when you have no leverage.”

“I beg to differ, Miss Granger. You and my son are not the only people capable of gathering information and manipulating it to suit your needs. Only, I have the advantage of first-hand knowledge and decades of experience. All it would take is a word from me and I can all but guarantee you a vote of support from the traditional contingent.”

“How do I know you’re not bluffing? Draco says you hardly ever leave the Manor so you’ll forgive me if I’m not quite convinced of your influence.”

His lip curls at her mention of his son. “I am selective in my social outings, this is true. It is also true that a witch like yourself has never and will never be acquainted with the inner workings of pureblood gentlemens’ clubs. As reformed as most of those men appear to be, as changed as you might think them, sometimes all it takes is a stiff brandy and a sympathetic ear and the things these men feel at liberty to discuss. How they really feel about a certain Muggleborn heroine for one.”

Hermione bristles. “I’d like you to leave now.”

Lucius doesn’t move. “It must be hard to hear the truth. Did you think for a minute those people would ever respect you? It was only ever convenient to champion Potter’s Golden Girl from time to time, but now you’ve gone and given them a real reason to rescind any support for you. You’ve started going after them and their kind, did you think they would take it lying down?”

“Leave, please.”

He still holds his position. “You can have this Wolfsbane law you so desperately want, and I can help you here. All I ask in return is my son’s freedom.”

“Your son is free, no thanks to you.”

“It is odd to have you defend him so vociferously when you do not even want him. Not that he was ever yours to have, but it’s been quite the blow to his confidence to have his…misguided affections go unreturned. Will you need time to think over my offer?”

Any instinctual fear she might have felt disintegrates, as Hermione boils with rage at the way Lucius refers to his son as a mere pawn, a chip to bargain. Hermione fully draws her wand, pointing it between cool, grey eyes. “Get out of my home.”

Lucius raises conciliatory palms and offers one final sneer. “What you lack in proper breeding you make up for in ambition. It would behoove you to actually use it. You have three days to contact me.”

He apparates away. 

Hermione tightens her grip on her wand and slashes it furiously through the air. It takes several minutes’ concentration and she’s perspiring by the end, but when she lowers her wand again, she has magically barred Lucius Malfoy from all the flat’s wards, including the Floo. 

Her arms and fingers shake from the magical effort but then the trembling doesn’t stop. If anything, it intensifies. She gulps in air and lowers herself to the sofa, thinking despairingly of how alone, alone, alone she is in this large flat, in the wider world. 

Panic greets her like an unwanted, familiar friend, wrapping her in its usual choking, foggy embrace. It clutches her throat, crushes her chest, blurs her vision. Blood pounds in her ears with the increasing thrum of her rapid pulse. 

The oppressive and omnipresent silence squeezes and tightens and Hermione can’t think her way out of this and she’s supposed to be good at thinking it’s what she’s known for and she should have hexed Lucius when she had the chance and oh God he knows things but does he know the right things and can she even begin to believe someone like him and how dare he and how did she let herself get trapped this way how did she lose control of her own life so fast and what is she meant to to with anything he’s told her and how is she meant to look these parents with bitten children in the eye if she fails to pass this law and she’s never been a graceful loser and all this work she’s wasted for years and how can she be this powerful woman Draco sees—

Draco.  

Another voice, quiet and soft, echoes through her mind, and she can feel the ghost of fingertips circling her skin.

“If I’m not with you, or if you’re alone, you should know how to do this.”

Tearfully, she grips her wand again and applies a Cooling Charm to her wrist, then one to her chest. She breathes slowly, allowing her heartbeat to settle, focusing on the calming effect the temperature change incites. 

Now removed from the surprise of Lucius’ visit and the anxiety it inspired, Hermione tries to think why she’s so shaken. 

She’d been wrong. Worse, she’d underestimated a very real threat.

She’d thought Lucius defeated, a muzzled menace. But he’d only ever been dormant. If his insinuations were anything to go on, apparently that descriptor could apply to the entire coterie of pureblood lawmakers and Ministry administration. 

He’s partially right, she knows, but it’s a heartbreak she’s already experienced. They’d all shown their hands when they either voted for the Marriage Act or didn’t care to stop it. 

What scares her is their willingness to have an entire generation of young children suffer because of a vendetta against her. She’s not entirely sure how credible Lucius’ assertions were, but can she afford to be wrong here? Would Lucius actually uphold his terms of his despicable bargain?

Hermione shudders. No, she’s not considering such a deplorable ultimatum, even if it were a hundred percent guarantee. Self-disgust rears its head just as Hermione’s eyes fall onto the bouquet left by Draco in the hall.

Stargazer lilies. 

The ache in her chest is unnecessary. Hermione doesn’t need the pang to tell her what she already knows, what she’s known for a while now. 

“I miss you, too,” she whispers. 

Hermione wipes her eyes and hurries to her study. She pens a brief letter then apparates to the local owl post office. It might accomplish nothing, but it’s a meeting request she should have made months ago.

 

 

Hermione fidgets with her handbag under the scrutinizing gaze of the tearoom hostess. She’s not one to leave the Ministry for her lunch hour and especially not for as upscale and exclusive an eatery as this one.

“Good afternoon, I have a reservation, it should be under ‘Granger.’”

Before the hostess can respond, a delicate, yet commanding voice sounds from behind Hermione.

“Actually, it’s under ‘Malfoy.’”

She turns quickly to see Narcissa. 

“I secured us a private room instead,” Narcissa says as they trail after the hostess. They’re seated in a small parlor, Hermione slightly intimidated at the elegant way Narcissa lowers herself onto a chintz chair, sleek black robes draping her in effortless femininity. 

Hermione lets the older woman handle ordering the tea service, happy to give that task over to someone more seasoned with both their preferences and this type of experience. The bustling, efficient staff set down a three-tier stand with little sandwiches and confections followed by a willow-patterned kettle, matching cups, and silver bowls and pourers for any beverage add-ins required. 

Hermione waits for the servers to leave, battling an anxious urge to wind and unwind some of her longer curls through her fingers. Her knee bounces beneath the table as it is, but at least the damask cloth hides this tic. 

Once they are alone, Narcissa surprises her by taking the kettle and pouring for Hermione first. 

“Thank you, Mrs. Malfoy—Narcissa—I wanted to—”

“If you asked me here to tell me of my husband’s…behavior, I am already well aware.”

“He admitted what he did?”

Narcissa pours her own cup then sets the kettle down. “Lucius and I have been together for many years. He has never been capable of lying to me and I am excellent at extracting information from him. At any rate, he’s becoming acquainted with the guest wing of the Manor for the foreseeable future.”

Hermione fights a smile. She did not request Narcissa’s presence to complain about Lucius, however. Whatever viciousness he’s set into motion won’t be able to be stopped by his wife at this point.

“I asked you here to talk about Draco. And yourself, actually.”

If Narcissa finds this impertinent, Hermione cannot say, as the other woman takes her time preparing her tea.

“What would you like to know?”

There are a million things Hermione would like to know about Narcissa, but she has a feeling if she does not ask in the precise right way, she will completely miss her chance at candor.

“If there was no law…if there was no compatibility test done on us…if Draco and I had chosen each other freely, would you still support this relationship?”

Narcissa stirs sugar into her cup in that meticulous, soundless way that ensures the spoon does not clink at all against the china. 

“Understand that there is nothing— nothing —I would not do for my son’s happiness. Do you think you make him happy?”

Hermione sees now where Draco picked up his talent for circuitous, non-committal replies.

“Despite what your husband thinks, I am not toying with his affections. I take what Draco and I have seriously. Our current relationship was hard-won and he…means very much to me.”

“Yet you resent the marriage.”

“I resent that this marriage was forced upon me.”

Narcissa only inclines her head briefly, indicating she has heard Hermione’s opinion, but is not going to reveal whether she believes her outrage justified or not.

“You are fond of reading and learning, I understand,” Narcissa says instead.

“Yes, always have been.”

“Draco used to complain about it constantly when you were children. If he wasn’t whinging about Mr. Potter and Quidditch, it was about ‘that Granger girl and her knowledge obsession.’”

“I’m sure that was the kindest thing he ever said about me at that age.”

Narcissa sips her tea. “Has Draco told you about the library at our manor?”

“Yes. I’d love a tour some time.”

“We have many rare texts. First editions, out-of-print books. Family heirlooms you wouldn’t find in any other library.”

“Draco did mention a Malfoy family book on customs.”

“Would you like to borrow it? I’m surprised Draco did not offer to show you. Particularly since some of the spellwork has been crafted over centuries by his ancestors.”

Hermione hears the subtext loud and clear. “I am not interested in theoretical compatibility magic.”

“I see.”

She knows she’s disappointed Narcissa, but Hermione refuses to be guilted. “I am interested in your son’s character, in the man he’s become. I do not need a spell to tell me how I already feel.”

“And how do you feel?”

“That is something Draco deserves to hear from me.”

“I hope since we’ve come to know one another more recently that you will trust that anything you’ve said today will remain in confidence.”

“All the same.”

Narcissa nods and doesn’t press the matter.  

“I do not think anything I have to say about Draco could further recommend him to you. I can only hope that he has chosen to show you the best of himself and carried himself in a manner befitting a gentleman of his upbringing. But do let me reassure you of one thing, in regard to my feelings on your marriage.”

Her stare shifts to a point over Hermione’s shoulder.

“There have been moments in my life where I have had to make difficult choices. In every single instance, I have chosen with one guiding principle in mind: my son’s life.”

Narcissa blinks as if returning to herself, eyes now focused on the tiered tray, considering the food.

“If my son tells me that his magic sought and chose a Muggleborn witch, I can accept this…surprising turn of events. I will not lie and tell you it’s what I originally would have wanted for my child.”

Her fingers rise and hover, still deciding their next move.

“But when my son tells me that he appreciates the efforts I have made in getting to know this young woman because she is important to him, because he has found something worth protecting and cherishing…never mind that I have eyes of my own. Then I could not be happier, as a mother.”

She plucks a mini raspberry tart from the middle tier and then meets Hermione’s gaze head-on.

“What matters to me is that Draco has, to borrow your words, chosen freely. You are welcome in my home as family and any children would be considered full heirs and treated as such in both official inheritance and my behavior toward them.”

“I—um—that’s very—but we’re not—”

“I know that was a presumptuous statement, in part,” Narcissa gently interrupts. “Nevertheless, I wanted there to be no mistaking my personal feelings on the matter, should it ever be relevant. I do not say this to sway you, but only to clear up any lingering doubts you might have. As Draco has chosen freely, I wish the same freedom extended to you. Magic can tell us much about ourselves, but it does not have to live with our decisions as we do.”

Hermione’s stomach roils uncomfortably and she’s hyper aware that all she’s had since early morning is a milky cup of tea. She hastily grabs a cucumber sandwich from the tray and doesn’t bother to care how common she looks eating it. 

Narcissa only takes the occasional sip of tea, seeming content in the lingering silence. Hermione finally notices the slim gold band on her left ring finger with a lone gem center-set. At odds with the rest of her ostentatious jewelry and aside from the stone color, it’s identical to Hermione’s wedding ring. A Black family tradition, she remembers Draco telling her during their dust-up over the Dissolution form. 

“Choice is important. And I know Draco appreciates that and—to the extent he can—empathizes with the frustration I’ve felt. I’m glad to know you share his outlook, and”—Hermione plucks another sandwich, suddenly ravenous—”you may tell Lucius I reject his insulting offer, unequivocally.”

Narcissa doesn’t respond, but Hermione swears her lips turn up at the corners over the rim of her cup.

Notes:

thanks everyone for your patience, still adjusting to being a new mom <3

bgonemydear, you continue to be invaluable, thank you.

abrilas.art is ridiculous (in the best way) for this chapter art. Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

im here if you want to say hello: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 13: Chapter 13

Notes:

(See the end of the chapter for notes.)

Chapter Text
Hermione hates the maxim “absence makes the heart grow fonder.”

Mostly because fondness seems to manifest in the most irritating of ways. She wakes alone and it makes her skin itch. While she focuses at work, her nails are bitten to the quick by the early afternoon. She feels it in her sodding hair of all places, as if it has somehow grown heavier with longing.

Pathetic.

Should she contact Draco? He, of course, left fire-call instructions in case of emergency. But what would she even say? “Oh, hello, sorry to interrupt your trip, just thought I should tell you about the emotional devastation you left in your wake and all of this is completely my fault anyhow because I’m the one who said we would benefit from time apart and I know the only reason you haven’t spoken to me is because you’re the one acting mature here and respecting my stated wishes. I was wrong about that, by the way. I was wrong, now can you come home and be smug about it to my face?”

No. Her sudden neediness should not usurp his career responsibilities. Besides, she can last a few more days. Probably.

The Daily Prophet’s weekend edition tests her resolve not to call Draco. Hermione can’t be sure if this is somehow the work of Lucius, the Minister, bitter ex-Ministry leaders, or perhaps even an unholy combination of all three. 

“Werewolf Attacks On the Rise.”

The timing cannot be coincidental. Her Wolfsbane measure will be having its Court session soon, it’s already been listed in the public announcements for upcoming proposed legislation. 

Hermione’s eyes narrow as she reads the paper. Amid the article’s typical dehumanizing language and jump-scare rhetoric, she finds something far more alarming.

“A representative for the Department of Magical Law Enforcement (DMLE) confirmed the increase in ‘werewolf-related incidents.’  

‘It’s getting out of hand,’ says one DMLE officer who wishes to remain anonymous, ‘our Aurors have been run ragged trying to capture werewolves intent on maiming and biting victims.’”

“That’s incorrect,” she says aloud, too engrossed to remember she’s alone. If anything, reported werewolf attacks have decreased dramatically in the last few years, thanks in part to her anti-discrimination measures. She would know, it’s one of her many statistics included from her research on the community. Fuming, Hermione skims the printed lies and exaggerations until she finds the infuriating quote she knew would come:

“‘At this time, we ask everyone to remain vigilant,’ says Minister Lance. ‘We cannot allow dangerous beings to run unchecked in their violence. I will personally see to it that our Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures forms a plan of action to address this public safety issue.’”

Hermione tosses the paper aside and considers how best to direct her boiling rage. 

Fire-call Draco and interrupt his trip with her work drama?

Floo to Harry’s and angrily pace his cottage whilst railing against his department’s fabrication?

Double and triple check the talking points she has planned for the Wizengamot?

Write to Miriam and apologize preemptively for failing her, her son, and every family with a bitten child?

She’ll do none of that. She doesn’t need a confrontation with her forced husband under these circumstances, nor a futile venting session with Harry, and she certainly doesn’t need to second-guess all her months of hard work because of one article. 

Hermione needs to drink an irresponsible amount of absurdly priced champagne and she knows just the place to go.

 

 

She’d skipped last weekend’s get-together, unsure if she’d still be welcome without Draco. It makes for quite the dramatic entrance. 

Hermione has had precious little to enjoy this past week, but the shocked looks (Goyle and Millie), artfully raised eyebrows (Blaise and Celine), and genuinely delighted smiles (Theo and Astoria) that greet her in Pansy’s sitting room are a nice change of pace.

“Well, well, good evening Mrs. Granger-Malfoy,” says Pansy, a surprised and wicked grin playing about her mouth. “To what do we owe the pleasure of your company?”

There’s a hint of a challenge in Pansy’s eyes and the mischievous curl to her dark-red lips fuels Hermione’s good humor.

“Pour me a drink, Parkinson, or have you forgotten how to properly treat a guest?”

A ripple of low laughter travels through the group and Pansy’s smile widens. “I’ll do you one better,” she says, plucking the chilled bottle (Hermione’s favorite) from a stand and gesturing outdoors. 

Blaise and Celine join them on the balcony to share a cigarette while Pansy and Hermione pass the champagne back and forth. 

Hazy peace descends and it’s not long before Hermione’s head is fuzzy with drink and sweet-smelling smoke. She closes her eyes for a few moments, letting Celine’s lilting voice lull her. She thinks they’re discussing one of the Zabinis’ new vineyards based on the occasional words that reach her ears, but Hermione is too content to join the conversation or even correct Blaise’s butchered pronunciation of a grape varietal. 

In her drowsy mind, she hears Draco’s soft laugh under his breath. A hand in hers and whispered words in her ears. He is everywhere whether she likes it or not. 

Except she does like it. She likes it so very much.

Pansy nudges her elbow and offers the bottle again. Hermione opens her eyes to find the Zabinis have returned inside as Pansy lights her own long, thin cigarette.

“All right there?”

“Yes. Just thinking.”

“About anything in particular? Or perhaps someone in particular?”

Hermione doesn’t care if Pansy is mocking her or if pining for Draco has become so palpable that other people can see it.

“Possibly. Probably.” Hermione drags a hand down her face then swigs some champagne. “Tell me something I don’t know about him.”

Pansy taps her nails against the stone balcony ledge. “Did you know he used to be engaged to Astoria?”

“I figured there was something between them once, based on your not-so-subtle comments the first time we met.”

“They were betrothed. Their families had it arranged a long time ago, of course.”

"So why aren't they married?"

"Haven't discussed your romantic pasts in gory detail?"

Hermione frowns. "I see little value in that sort of thing. Draco's dating history is the least objectionable part of his past."

"Fair enough."

Pansy takes a slow inhale and though she’s fit to bursting with questions, Hermione lets her tell the story in her own time.

“Astoria wasn’t in our year and they barely knew each other. He’d travel so often for work and even having a fiancée here didn’t affect his trips. But they would have gone through with it. Draco, at least, planned to. They probably would have been happy together. She’s agreeable enough and Draco’s parents were so pleased.” 

“What happened?”

“Theo happened.”

Hermione’s eyes widen but Pansy shakes her head. 

“It’s not as scandalous as all that. Astoria was this quiet, demure thing with Draco. Gods, they were so polite and stiff around each other. I’ve sat through History of Magic lessons more exciting than their courtship. But around Theo…she lit up like a phoenix on a burning day. It’s difficult to explain and nauseating to witness, when two people are so drawn to one another.”

Cigarette only half finished, Pansy tosses it away and motions for the champagne.  

“Draco released her from the betrothal. Theo and Astoria waited a respectable amount of time before starting up anything—publicly, anyway. Then once the Marriage Law was announced, they made it official. And here we all are.”

Hermione looks back inside at the glowing mother-to-be, hand resting joyfully on her protruding stomach. She imagines Draco at Astoria’s side, and tries to envision them as a couple. It’s an easy picture painted by Pansy: Draco acting the dutiful son, bringing home this proper, pureblood wife. There is a softness to Astoria; she is pleasant, delicate, and earnest. Perhaps Draco needed softness in his life at one point. Hermione doesn’t mean to be unfair or unkind, even only internally, but the younger woman’s light happiness couldn't possibly hold Draco’s full interest for a lifetime. Theo’s bright affability makes him the better-suited husband for Astoria. 

Like calls to like, Draco had said as much when Hermione asked why he thought they’d been matched. And Hermione and Draco are not so different as the public likes to paint them. They are not the reformer and the reformed. Saint and scoundrel. Reducing them to simple dichotomies dulls the truth.

The joint attraction that draws them together is fused from mutual fury. From fervid ambitions and stubbornly chasing challenges, they are the covetous types. Insufferably clever and desperate for the world to take notice. Wrathful when people or institutions would prohibit them from achievements.

They are necessary co-conspirators. His eyes burn brightest for her when she’s fired up with rage, when she plots with him, when she revels in successes over her adversaries. Lesser men would perhaps fear how her passion is tinged with possessiveness, but Draco’s affection hungers for it.

Draco, who will always admire her innate goodness, will also never shy away from the less virtuous parts of her. Who will gleefully pin her “hit list” to his study wall and take pride in their joint scheming. Who knows how to stem panic attacks because he’s seen his own horrors. Familiarity with dark things and close brushes with cruelty shape a person in irreversible ways. She remembers the look on his face when he thought he’d burn to death in Fiendfyre, just as he surely remembers the look on hers when she was tortured on his drawing room floor. 

Sinister undercurrents could have dragged them both down, their ugliest tendencies had more than enough room to thrive and destroy. 

And yet. Kindness found a way to bloom. He’d wielded patience and she’d eventually caved to grace. They’d clawed away from the initial hostility, battled their grotesque, unfixable past to secure their happy present. Hermione doesn’t care for pretty, neat relationship stories. Theirs was never going to be straightforward, easily explained in a concise narrative. The setbacks, the progress followed by regression, the deep heartaches and hard-won smiles confirm for her that she has something worth keeping. 

They should have failed, imploded. How very like them to take the punishing hand dealt and turn it into a success.

Pansy bumps her shoulder. “Not thinking of popping out any Malfoy heirs soon, are you?”

“God, no.”

“Good. Children are horrid. Little sentient male orgasms.”

“Pansy!”

“It’s true. For something required to create life, the male climax is so very boring. Women are much more fascinating creatures when it comes to pleasure.”

“Oh. Is that why you—ah—rejected even being matched for the law?”

“If this is a ham-fisted attempt at asking if I prefer witches in my bed, the answer is most of the time, but no, Granger, that is not why I immediately accepted the ban. Marriage is not only boring, it’s a trap. And I won’t have it.”

She shakes the bottle at Hermione in a gesture meant for her to finish then vanish the drink. Hermione obliges. 

Bitterness clouds Pansy’s face, suddenly bright eyes surveying the vast gardens of her expansive estate below. “My parents, in their infinite pureblood wisdom, left everything in my name. But should I ever marry, my spouse—who would have, presumably, been a male selected for me by them—immediately usurps me as owner and chief shareholder of all Parkinson businesses. My surname on it all and yet they envisioned a future for me in which I was second fiddle to some prick simply because he existed. Not bloody likely. I salvaged it all after the war, me.”

Were she an actual friend, Hermione would squeeze Pansy’s hand here or offer some physical comfort. Alas, Hermione does not think sentimentality will earn her anything more than a recoil and a callous retort.

“You’ve obviously done well for yourself. I’m mature enough to admit I’m impressed and a little bit jealous.”

“Pissed enough more like,” Pansy drawls. “You’ve been great for business, by the way. You made owning house elves very gauche and it paid off handsomely for me, I can tell you that. You have more influence than you think.”

Hermione attributes the compliment to the drinks consumed. Pansy whirls away from the grounds, leaning back on both elbows and scrutinizing Hermione. 

“Why did you come here tonight?”

“I…I’m not sure. Maybe I’m trying to see what life could look like with Draco. I think I’m still coming to terms with this new version of him.”

“He sent you a letter before your marriage, didn’t he?”

“The day I found out about our match, yes.”

“Hmm. Might be worth re-reading.”

After that odd suggestion, Pansy tips her head back slightly, squinting up at the night sky and pointedly avoiding Hermione fidgeting with curiosity. With no elaboration forthcoming, Hermione sighs and throws out a spontaneous comment of her own.

“You should come to brunch with me and Ginny some time.”

Pansy doesn’t answer for so long that Hermione thinks she’s ignoring her. Then she feigns brushing non-existent ash off her top and flounces towards the glass doors. 

“I suppose I could do brunch,” she tosses over her shoulder. “Send me an owl.”

in these silent days13

 

 

Hermione decides it’s in her best interest to not read the Daily Prophet over breakfast the following morning. 

She has other reading material in mind. 

From a warded drawer in her desk, Hermione pulls out Draco’s letter. Nothing strikes her upon the first re-read. What is she missing? What did Pansy’s cryptic encouragement mean?

She reads it again.

 

Dear Granger,

Though it has been some time since we have seen one another, I felt compelled to write to you. Please know that you do not owe me a reply, nor do I expect one. You don’t even have to read further, though I hope that you will. I understand a letter from me is, at best, strange and most likely unwelcome. 

But I would be remiss in not telling you how sorry I am. I apologize for my despicable behavior towards you at school, the abhorrent language I used, the cruel remarks about your appearance and heritage. I deeply regret my inaction the night you were brought to my home and I further regret my decision to follow you and your friends into the Room of Hidden Things. I don’t believe you sustained any injuries from the Fiendfyre, but all the same, I blame myself for how things escalated. 

I wish you well, truly. Thank you for your time and, if you read this far, it’s more grace than I deserve.

Sincerely,

Draco Malfoy

 

It’s his handwriting to be sure, his refined and stiff tone, yet something about it feels…undeveloped. The script, while neat, isn’t as tidy as she’s used to seeing from his hand, though he might have rushed to write this letter before the Ministry notice could get to her. 

He’d addressed her as “Granger,” here but when they’d met at the tea shop to first discuss the marriage, he’d called her “Miss Granger.” He’d written “my home” when referring to the Manor. There’s also no date at the top and something about his word choice sticks out the more times she reads it. “I wish you well,” is a sentiment for someone you don’t believe you’ll ever see again. 

She wonders about Draco immediately post-war and what kind of man had risen from the ashes of a cowardly, wayward boy. A wild thought seizes her and Hermione grabs her wand. Draco’s study has what she needs: a guide to basic spells used in artefact verification. 

Propping the book open on the stand, she double checks the incantation and wand movement for the Back-Dating Charm and then casts it on the letter. The color sparks it gives off should reveal the approximate age of the parchment. A turquoise color lights up the room and Hermione consults the book again. The parchment itself appears to be under ten years old. 

Hermione thumbs through the guide, wondering what other magic she has at her disposal for answering her question. She finds a charm for revealing magical traces and, when applied, shows Draco used an Ink-Siphoning Charm at one point. She grasps the magical thread and pulls, muttering another spell beneath her breath to date Draco’s past spellwork. His charm reacts with her wand, sparking to a richer blue and now Hermione has a more precise timestamp of six years. 

Twenty-year old Draco had written this letter. Not a man looking to court her, not one looking to win her favor. No impending marriage law had forced his hand here. 

It staggers her then, the almighty wave kept at bay, and though she’d put up a good defense, Hermione lets herself surrender.

She inhales then exhales and loves him. 

In his silence, in his patience, in his determined way of getting under her skin.

In the overt and the hidden. In the deliberate and reflexive. In his choices. In the subtle and the obvious.

And she’d called it anything but love. 

A mistake she hopes to rectify as soon as possible.

in these silent days131

 

 

Hermione’s heart is in her throat when it isn’t dropping out of her altogether. Her pulse spikes and slows, undecided in its rate. She paces, then, fed up with her jittery nerves, sits stockstill in an armchair before jumping to her feet again. 

She is an incongruous mess.

Hair up, hair down. Stand, pace, sit. On the sofa, no, in her favorite chair, no, back to the sofa, no, better to be standing. Not too close to the fireplace, but not too far, maybe?

She’s caught in a half turn back towards the kitchen for more tea when the fire lights up in telltale green. 

Draco stands there, looking travel-worn and heavy-hearted, but when he spots her, some of that weariness fades in real time. Palpable relief rolls off him, as if he didn’t expect her to still be here. He must have still thought of her only waiting for the first opportunity to escape and avoid an awkward run-in or conversation. 

Speech eludes her. Hermione cannot muster a preamble, greeting, or inquiries about his trip.

"Hello," he says, so apprehensive and uncertain that Hermione can no longer stand it. 

“I love you.”

Draco stares at her. A minute passes, or maybe two, or perhaps sixty, while he stares and wants and hopes. Then, he’s across the room in three long strides.

His bag hits the floor as her back hits the wall. 

“You—I—you—?” His voice sputters to nothing, words confused and unsure even as his hands confidently reach for her waist and face.

His broad thumb strokes down her cheek. Wild grey eyes cannot decide where to look. His gaze searches everywhere, briefly lands on her smiling mouth, flicks to her eyes, down her body, and back up again.

“Please,” he says, imploringly. “Please.”

“I love you.”

She’s seen Draco smile before, of course, but never like this. He’s smiling with his entire being; joy radiates from him and spurs Hermione to say what she’s planned to say.

"And I don't have flowers for you, but I do have this.” Disentangling herself from Draco, she moves to the coffee table and picks up the signed Marriage Dissolution Form. Holding it aloft, she takes her wand and confidently casts.

“Incendio.”

The parchment goes up in a quick blaze and leaves behind nothing but tiny bits of ash. Hermione vanishes the remains and turns to Draco.

“I won’t stop fighting the law. But I don’t want you to think—there’s no time limit for us. I’m here for—”

He grabs her, wrapping her up in a fierce kiss and any time Hermione is able to draw breath she whispers over and over, “I’m here, I’m here.”

It’s empowering, to be loved by him. To let him love her. To be open to all he has to give and reciprocate with everything she has. 

Their kisses slow gradually until Draco pulls back and rests his forehead against hers.

“How was your week?” he asks and they both chuckle at such a mundane question in the face of the last few moments. 

“It was nine days. And horrible. It was horrible without you.”

Draco tries and fails not to grin. “I left the fire-call instructions for the hotel, you could have reached me any time.”

“I didn’t want to bother you.”

“Bother me, Hermione. Always bother me.”

Hermione traces his jaw, because she wants to, because she can. Because she loves this man and time spent not touching him is time wasted.

“Speaking of bothering…I may have barred your father from the Floo and wards.”

“What happened?”

The story spills out of her, Draco’s face hardening with each detail revealed. He moves away from her and paces while she talks, fists clenching and unclenching at his side. Hermione leaves out the lunch with Narcissa, but makes sure Draco knows she resolutely rejected his father’s ludicrous “offer.”

When she finishes, he runs a hand down his face. “I’ll be right back.”

“Where are you going?”

“To tell my father if he tries to interfere in my marriage ever again, I’ll beat him with his own walking stick.”

He disappears with a pop, then apparates back immediately.

“Forgive me for earlier.” He kisses her, slow and deep. “I love you, too.”

He apparates away again.

 

 

Per his promise, Draco isn’t gone long, but a different man returns, one well-practiced in careful composure and tempered expectations. That beautifully unguarded wildness is gone, replaced with the reserved man she’s come to know over the past year. Though only a short time has passed, it would be enough for Draco to second-guess her affection and declarations. 

Draco sits down, dropping his head into his hands.

“Are you all right?”

“Brilliant,” he says, clipped. “Would you mind terribly if my mother dines here with us Saturday evening? I’d rather avoid the manor for the time being.”

“Of course.” Hermione runs a hand up his arm. She senses the tension, the shame emanating from Draco and can predict which direction their conversation will go next. 

"My family is—"

"Your family. I don’t expect you to apologize for their behavior.”

“No, but I can apologize for giving my father the benefit of the doubt when it now affects you too. I’m so sorry.” He brushes a kiss to her knuckles. 

“You should have let me come with you.”

“No. You didn’t need to witness that.”

“You’re doing it now.”

“Doing what?”

“Hoping I don’t leave. Worrying that one mistake, one point of discomfort and I’ll go.”

Draco frowns and sighs, gesturing at the table where the Dissolution Form used to exist. “I appreciate the symbolic burning, trust me, I do. But you can always get another form.”

She knows he’s exhausted, physically and emotionally. But they’ve spent almost an entire year speaking indirectly, too prudent with their words. Honesty will be hard, painful work but they need it now more than ever.

“What is it you’re afraid of?”

“That either way I lose you. That I give this a proper go and you still bolt once our mandated time is up. Or I do nothing, say nothing, and I lose you now.”

Hermione cups his face and kisses him. “Please don’t draw back from me now. Not after everything we’ve been through.”

“But what happens later? After the required years are up?”

“Forget about requirements, Draco, please. I’m with you now because I choose to be. If you’re expecting an admission that I’m grateful this law forced us together, I can’t give that to you. I can’t ever give that to you. I don’t know what happens next and that frightens me. But I see you in the days ahead, for however long we want, for however long you’ll have me.” 

In a blink, she’s collected against his chest, his face smothered by her hair. “Of course I’ll have you, daft woman,” he murmurs into her curls.

“I re-read your letter, by the way.”

“My letter?”

“The one you sent me on the day we were matched. When I asked you before, about why you sent it…you said I deserved that much, whether I accepted you or not.”

He pulls back with a cautious, wary look. “Yes.”

“Why did you wait six years to send it?”

He huffs a disbelieving laugh. “You…are too bloody clever.” He takes her hand. “Come to bed with me? It’s been…a day.”

They settle on their respective sides, facing one another. Draco takes a measured breath and Hermione falls that much more in love.

“The boy who wrote that letter meant nothing to you. It wouldn’t have been fair to inflict myself on you then, sincere though I was. Every now and then I’d remember it, stowed away in my desk and wonder if maybe…maybe now? Maybe this month or this year, maybe when I’d finally thought myself open enough to send it off and risk a reply from you. If it sat in a drawer, I was safe from your rejection.”

“You didn’t think I’d forgive you?”

“I didn’t really know you, did I? I might have imagined a few scenarios where we’d met up and I made some pretty speeches, but honestly, I mostly put it out of my mind until we were matched. Sort of became a ‘now or never’ situation thanks to the law.”

He walks his fingers along the duvet until they reach her hip. “I was fighting a losing battle with you. For you. I’d started so far behind—my fault—I know this. I know you hated me.”

“No, Draco—”

“Yes, Draco. I also accept, ‘Please, Draco’ and ‘Right there, Draco.’”

“Stop it, Draco.”

“That one’s no fun at all.”

“I love you, Draco.”

That sobers him again. “I know it wasn’t always so. That’s all I was trying to say.” A squeeze to her hip. “I had forgotten how to want. Or rather, I buried the instinct. I contented myself with your friendship and even when my hopes burned me up I didn’t dare let myself believe there could ever be more. Whatever you would offer I let myself take.”

Hermione covers his hand with her own. “You can have me. We can have this.”

When she kisses him, she can feel the doubt gradually give way to acceptance. So she keeps kissing and caressing and whispering until she can feel the last shreds of his disbelief crumble. Until his tension eases and he melts into her.

The thrill of discovery becomes the thrill of security. There’d been a fevered, passionate undercurrent when they’d first given into their attraction. And each time since had been just as rousing. But now, knowing each other so fully, with intentions revealed and love disclosed, there can be no mistaking what any of their actions mean.

He calls her perfect and good girl and darling aloud and a thousand other endearments with his eyes and hands. Hermione has hardly any words to return, not when he’s pinned her to the mattress and has his head between her thighs. 

She makes sure to wreck him just as thoroughly once she’s come first. She loves him with her mouth around his cock, with kisses to his navel, fingers crawling up his chest and into his silky hair, and most thoroughly when she sits astride him, moving and grinding and chasing that most pleasant high. 

“Tell me you missed me,” she says, circling her hips.

“You know I did.”

“And—and you had a—successful but—terrible time.”

“The most terrible. Miserable, lonely and—gods, love—wanted you—the whole time.”

They finish slowly, luxuriating in being joined and knowing it’s only the first of many nights spent just like this. 

Hermione rests her head on his chest, listening to the heart that belongs to her. It thuds rhythmically, and she thinks it might be her favorite sound until Draco speaks.

“I imagined coming home to you so many times. Not once did I think it would be like this.”

“Good, I hope?”

She can hear the smile in his voice when Draco says, “It’ll do.”

Hermione rolls her head to see him. “I know you’re tired, but I was curious about something.”

“Yes?” 

“Will you tell me what happened with Astoria and Theo?”

Draco huffs a surprised laugh then runs a hand down his face. Hermione hears the muffled, “Cheers, Pansy.”

He plays with one of her curls while he chooses his words. “There isn’t too much to tell, I’m afraid. If I’d gone through with it, I would have made all three of us miserable. By stepping aside, two people got to be happy and I got to live my own life for a while.”

Hermione nestles upward, burrowing into the crook of his neck, her skin tingling with pride and love.

“Are you happy?” 

“Yes.” His reply is instant, reflexive. 

Draco tilts her chin up to look at him. It’s a thorough, appreciative examination of her face, adoring and massively content. 

“Yes,” he says again.

Notes:

thank you everyone for the well-wishes <3 i appreciate it so much and even though i just don't have the time/energy to respond to comments like i'd want, i read them all and they make my day :) just one more chapter to go!

thank you bgonemydear for looking this over and getting me through another chapter <3

Chapter art by abrilas.art. Can you believe how she spoils us? Follow her everywhere: tumblr, twitter, IG.

Come say hello: tumblr, twitter, or in the Room of Requirement discord.
Chapter 14: Chapter 14

Notes:

WARNING: NSFW artwork embedded :)

THANK YOU to bgonemydear because wow did this take a minute for me to get through and you were a patient and lovely beta with me the entire way.

And Abrilas, what can I even say to you? Thank you seems so inadequate. The art in this story is stunning (as are you) and I am so grateful we partnered up for this.

To the readers, thank you for commenting and supporting me through a weird, tough time. I'm so glad I had the opportunity to tell this story, this version of the marriage law trope that I always wanted to see in the world. Thanks for sticking around :)
(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)

Chapter Text
It’s officially pandemonium. Well, depending on where one falls in regard to government misconduct, it could also be considered overdue justice. Seven Court members have had to resign in the past week, followed by three junior assistants to the Minister, several Aurors and Hit Wizards, and a Department of Mysteries Unspeakable. 

The revelations are staggering from top to bottom: a massive case of pension fraud, misappropriation of Ministry funds, and even an international scandal involving an extramarital affair under the guise of undercover DMLE investigations. 

The press have blown wide holes in Lance’s ship and the sinking is looking swift and brutal. It’s clear now he’s lost control of many of his associates, if he ever had control in the first place. The papers seem to be attributing these missteps to incompetence rather than a natural consequence of cronyism, but Hermione will take what she can get. She sips her morning tea as she gleefully reads through the front page of the Prophet. The coverage continues onto five more pages. 

A knock sounds at her door. “Come in!” she calls and her boss enters, a dour expression on his face. And he’s not alone.

“Good morning, Mr. Lawson. Mr. Rochet, this is a surprise.”

“Morning, dear, might we steal a moment of your time?” says Rochet and Hermione suppresses a cringe. 

“How can I help you gentleman?”

They exchange a grave look then sit in the chairs opposite her desk. Lawson sighs and shifts back in his seat, then casts a guilty look at Rochet. “Hermione, we’ve come to discuss some rather troubling reports.”

Hermione says nothing. They give her a beat to reply, but still she stays silent, letting them get to what she suspects will be a rather impertinent point of a visit. 

“I’m sure you’ve kept up with the news,” Rochet says and gestures to the folded Prophet on her desk. “Difficult times for the Ministry right now. Most unsettling.”

She waits them out again, a placid smile on her face. 

“Right,” Rochet clears his throat. “Well, we thought it would be in everyone’s best interest to have a little informal chat. See if we can’t all find some common ground.”

If Hermione has learned anything from Draco and how he conducts his trade negotiations, she knows she already has the upper hand here. They’ve come to appeal to her kindness, her softer, sympathetic side.

They don’t know her at all, then.

“Hermione, do you believe in the mission of the Ministry? In the work we do here?” asks Lawson.

“I believe it is the government’s job to act in the best interest of the people it serves,” says Hermione.

“Yes, of course,” says Rochet. “But can a government do its job if it does not have the trust and faith of its people?”

“I suppose not,” drawls Hermione. “Good thing we have mechanisms in place for removing those unfit for civil service.”

Rochet purses his lips, and a flush creeps up Lawson’s neck.

“Instability leaves us vulnerable,” argues Rochet. “Surely you of all people would agree? The recent sudden…shifts in personnel, the influx of new, younger Court members…it’s all rather concerning, is it not?”

Hermione sits back in her chair with a polite frown.

“Vulnerable how? Forgive me, gentleman, but it sounds as if you object to the idea of rooting out corruption and making room for more progressive people and ideas. Is that what I’m hearing?”

Lawson exhales noisily, huffing out some pent up irritation. “It’s obvious what you and your husband are doing. People will notice and they’re going to start talking when every person in your path upward is suddenly removed.”

Hermione leans forward. “Ask yourself this: why are these people being removed? Because I don’t like them? Or because they’re finally being called to the carpet for their illegal behavior?”

Lawson looks ready to furiously retort, but Rochet cuts in smoothly. “What do you want from this job, Hermione? Are you looking for a promotion? A raise?”

She focuses her gaze on Lawson first. “What I want is for the Wolfsbane law to pass. What I want is for you to actually do your job as head of this department. I should have had an entire support team dedicated to helping with research and Court preparation. But no matter. I’m used to shouldering the brunt of the hard work.”

She turns her attention to Rochet, “And I want you to actually support this measure not because you think it will get you what you want, but because it is a well-written and sorely needed law. It is what we’re supposed to be doing here.”

Hermione stands, crosses to the door and opens it. “And if asking you and the rest of your colleagues to perform their basic job functions ethically is asking too much, then it appears we are at an impasse.”

Neither man moves for a beat, seeming shocked at the dismissal. Rochet comes to first, standing and shaking his head. “Consider that you are ruining careers, reputations.”

Now Hermione indulges in a vindictive grin. “The law is the law, Mr. Rochet.”

Once they’ve left, Hermione has to wonder if one or both of the men have fallen victim to the discovery of their own immoral actions. Or perhaps a family member or friend. Or perhaps still, Minister Lance thought a softer touch, a peaceful approach via these two more familiar faces might have Hermione putting a stop to these reports. All it’s done is show her that she’s inching towards victory. 

Draco pins her against the kitchen counter when they return home that evening. 

“You’re looking deliciously smug. How was work?”

“Chaotic. An attempt was made to sway me towards mercy. These people have a fundamental misunderstanding that corrupt behavior has consequences. They’d rather start a whisper campaign about my influence.”

“Tell me all about it,” Draco says, heat in his eyes and voice. “How cross were you? Did you raise your voice? Your wand?”

Hermione laughs and pushes against his chest. “Excuse you, I am a consummate professional, no matter how these men would keep making this personal.”

“There may eventually be fallout here for you,” Draco says, seriously. “We can deal with that as it comes, darling. But yes, I think you may find yourself a target of the more aggrieved parties that still want to grasp at any power they have left.”

Hermione ruminates on Draco’s warning and comes to a conclusion about her Wolfsbane proposal. A tactical retreat of sorts that may just secure a win, even if it requires a small sacrifice. 

 

Hermione greets Miriam with a bright smile and ushers her into her office. Behind her, Hermione spots Lawson peering over with a curious frown. She gives him a wide grin and a friendly wave before shutting the door on his suspicious scowl. 

“Thank you for meeting me. Tea?”

Miriam shakes her head and sits. “Did everything I provide help with your statement?”

“Of course, but I do need something else from you.”

Hermione takes a steadying breath. “I’ve come to the realization…that I have made this entire effort too personal of an endeavor. I care…I care so much about how this measure could help your son and children like him but…I think I’ve centered myself too much in the success or failure. It shouldn’t come down to my ego or vanity or personal vendettas. My reputation is not what’s really at stake here…and I owe you an apology for making something so important about me.”

“Oh, no Hermione, I can assure you none of the other parents feel that way, myself included.” Miriam says. “But what do you need?”

“I’d like you to address the Wizengamot.”

“Oh.”

“You won’t be alone,” Hermione hastens to add. “Headmistress McGonagall is providing testimony in support, as is Hogwarts Matron Pomfrey. I’ve got two school governors, and you might be familiar with Anthony Goldstein? He’s a community advocate and can speak to how the anti-discrimination laws have helped him as an adult. But what this law needs is a parent’s voice.”

“I don’t know…I’ve never done something like this.”

“I’ll still introduce the law and read out the tenets. But I think the closing statement should come from you. You and your family will be directly affected by the outcome. If the Court members can put a face to the law that isn’t mine, then I think we have a better chance at success.”

Miriam sighs and looks down at her hands clasped in her lap. “I knew the risks when you first wrote to me. I knew this might mean some work in the public eye. But goodness, I—” she shrugs, “I think I owe it to Nate to try. And the other kids, too. You’ll help me write something?”

“Of course,” Hermione says, beaming. For the first time in the longest time, she feels a swell of hope within. This, she thinks, this is the job she pursued, this is the career she originally sought. Let her superiors dither about political ramifications and the dismantling of the old boys’ clubs that had propped up once again. Hermione’s too busy making a difference.

 

Unfortunately, pathetically, Lance’s public relations team has scored some news space amidst the hubbub of all his ministerial missteps. 

The front page puff piece celebrates the first year of the Matched Matrimonial Measure, with lengthy interviews with some of the happy couples (Cormac McLaggen blathers on for a page or so and makes sure to throw in an endorsement for his male enhancement potion) and wedding photos from the past year. Hermione and Draco’s is of course included, though they are not mentioned otherwise. 

It’s an obvious and desperate effort to sway public opinion back with Lance. The law did not have the effect they’d hoped for when put into place. Once the excitement died down over matches and weddings, the public weren’t as distracted anymore and now many were starting to ask questions. What else had this administration done for wizarding Britain? Where was the brighter future promised? What were they doing about the surging unemployment numbers? Why were younger witches and wizards still choosing Muggle careers at an increasing rate? 

While Hermione could laugh off this article, seeing her wedding picture in print causes anxiety to spike. She doesn’t think her parents subscribe to any wizarding publications, but all the same, the off chance is enough for her to stop hiding this part of her life. 

She’s asked Miriam to be brave, so she needs to do the same. 

“What is it?” Draco asks, breaking through her tense thoughts. They’d settled in bed early that evening, Hermione too on edge to do anything else but think of tomorrow’s presentation.

“Do you think…could we schedule that trip to Australia? To see my parents?”

“Of course, love. When do you want to go?”

“As soon as we can after my Court date.” She burrows closer to Draco. “I think they deserve to hear our story from me.”

To her surprise, Draco sighs. “If you must. I have to say, I was very attached to my fabricated version.”

“I still haven’t ruled out telling them I hired you as an escort at first. Which is somehow less horrifying than a government mandated marriage.”

“Please, Granger. As if you could have afforded me.”

She laughs, a common sound in their home lately, and allows his touch and kiss to then erase all stressful thoughts of upcoming legislative efforts and disapproving parents.

 

A low hum of conversation fills the Wizengamot chambers. Hermione tries to not fidget in her seat, lest she make Miriam any more nervous, but she’s finding it hard to tame the anxious energy. 

She takes stock of the already seated Court members, then glances at the rest of the assembled crowd. There’s a substantial journalist presence, due partly to her notoriety but also this will be one of the first laws voted on by many of the newer Court members. There’s still plenty of pureblood representation, but from some of the lesser known families like Padma Patil and Archibald Abbott, and an influx of Muggleborn members, both experienced Ministry employees and novices. 

In the crowded gallery, Hermione’s heart swells when she sees Andromeda Tonks, Teddy at her side. A few benches back and to the right sits Draco and Narcissa. Whether either Black sister is aware of the other’s presence, Hermione cannot say. 

Lucius is notably absent from both today’s event and Hermione’s life as of late. She’s tried a few times to discuss this with Draco and his feelings on the matter, but he’s not ready to unpack it all just yet. Hermione knows there is an unopened letter from Lucius in Draco’s study. 

She watches as the remaining court members find their seats and Chief Warlock Constance Appelby bangs the gavel and calls for order and silence. 

Hermione waits to be called forward and reaches for her speech notes. But when she opens her briefcase she finds something sitting atop her parchment: the little model Norwegian Ridgeback with a note attached to the swishing tail. 

“If you find yourself in need of a little bravery, remember that girl who snuck a dragon through the castle at night. She feared nothing and no one…except McGonagall.”

Spirits lifted, she smiles to herself and eagerly approaches the podium as the court scribe reads out her name and title. She follows her straightforward script to the letter: detailing what this proposed law would provide. It would guarantee any Hogwarts student access to free Wolfsbane potion supply, as well as private chambers each full moon to ensure safety of all. Hermione keeps it brief, without any editorializing or pleas to humanity. Though part of her feels a twinge of frustration, she knows delegation to be the best tactic here. Her pride has to take the backseat today. She’d kept her gaze focused on the stone benches, not looking at any member’s face in particular, and didn’t dare to look at anyone until she’d resumed her seat. 

As the sharp stern tone of Minerva McGonagall speaks next (about the already completed renovations to the school), Hermione lets herself observe the people in charge of their fate. At first, anger rears its head, as she sees some of the old guard looking bored or clearly not paying attention. Disappointment threatens to topple her hope, until she sees others looking rapt with interest, a few people taking notes, and still others who seem at least intrigued. 

As McGonagall wraps up and Madam Pomfrey steps in, Hermione catches Rochet’s eyes. He’s regarding her curiously, as if he’s only just now seeing her for the first time. Hermione gives a grim smile, then tunes back into the testimony. There’d been a time when his opinion mattered to her, when she’d cared what the other elders thought. When she’d meekly toed the line, thinking that was the way to advance. Then they’d shunned her, mocked her, when she dared be loud about injustice, branding her a shrill troublemaker. Now, they have no idea what to make of this measured, cunning woman, secure in the allies and delegates who can help her enact the changes she envisions.

The session continues on as scheduled: the Hogwarts board governors testify to their support of this measure and the school budget, then Anthony says his piece about the recent improvements for the werewolf community, thanks to better laws. It’s only as he’s resuming his seat that there’s a stir from one corner of the chamber. Minister Lance enters, causing a rush of whispers to break out.

Lance gives an apologetic smile to the Court as the Chief Warlock bangs her gavel and calls for order. 

“Apologies for the intrusion,” says the Minister, “please, carry on as you were.”

He’s come to oversee the voting, Hermione knows, and possibly intimidate members to go a certain way. Harry’s oddly corrupt and poorly handled Fifth Year trial aside, it’s a rare thing for a sitting Minister to attend court proceedings when not directly involved with the matter put forth. 

You’re too late , Hermione thinks viciously. It’s a pathetic last power play, one she hopes won’t sway too many members’ decisions. She turns away from his malicious face and squeezes Miriam’s hand in encouragement. She returns the squeeze and then stands, tall and proud. 

The Court recognizes her, and Hermione holds her breath.

“Esteemed witches and wizards of the Court. I address you today as a mother. A mother whose only child was bitten so early in life, that all he knows is life as a werewolf.” She pauses for a shaky breath that reverberates around the entire room.

“When he was first bitten, we had no information. The healers who treated him sent us home with only one vial of Wolfsbane and a pamphlet on how to properly restrain him if we couldn’t secure more doses.”

Miriam’s voice falters briefly. “There were times when we couldn’t afford the potion. Or when our regular supplier ran out for months on end. Or we had to resort to shady sellers who charged double for a weaker brew. I—we—had to lock our small child up so he wouldn’t hurt himself or others. No parent should have to listen to—to pained howls. Not when our world has a solution.”

Hermione chances a glance at the Minister. He’s drumming his fingers, affecting supreme indifference. 

She’s not sure if Miriam notices, but the woman’s voice grows in strength. 

“Please. Don’t let this happen to other families. Other children. As the others have shared today, our world is safer when we can all participate equally. The Hogwarts staff have laid out their plan for these children so they may receive the same education as their peers. The board members presented the costs and funding. I am here to appeal to you all as a parent who only wants to give bitten children a chance to succeed. Pushing them to the fringe of society would be disastrous, and thanks to the efforts of advocates like Mr. Goldstein and Ministry employees like Mrs. Granger-Malfoy, we have already seen progress with the older werewolf population. By supporting this measure today, we can see that progress continue with our future generations. Please, do not let discrimination stand in the way of improving the lives of so many families. Thank you.”

Miriam returns on shaky legs and Hermione grabs her hand beneath the table again. 

“Well done,” she whispers, and Miriam can only nod in response, looking like she might be sick any minute.

The Chief Warlock thanks those testifying for their remarks then turns to the assembled court, a sea of plum-colored robes now holding the fate of future and current Hogwarts students, of Hermione’s work for the past year.

“Members of the Wizengamot, I now call upon you to perform your duty. We will now vote on proposed law 1909, Wolfsbane Distribution to Affected Minors.”

Hermione pulls her hand back into her lap. She closes her fingers around a tiny dragon and prays. 

“All in favor?”

She can’t look up. She doesn’t want to panic-count, doesn’t want to see a disappointing outcome. She recites the steps for appeal in her head, wishing instead she could turn around and seek out Draco’s comforting and encouraging gaze.

“All opposed?”

There’s noise happening around her, a sharp intake of breath from Miriam, a babble breaks out amongst the gallery and press. Hermione feels a weighty gaze on her and looks up to lock eyes with Minister Lance. 

His stony, contemptuous face stares back and without having to even hear the result, without needing the breathless, “Oh, thank Merlin,” from Miriam or the cheers from some above, Hermione knows she’s succeeded. 

“With an official count of 40-29, the Court has passed proposed law 1909, the Wolfsbane Distribution to Affected Minors Act, effective immediately. Members, you may adjourn.”

The gavel bangs, the cameras flash, and Hermione is tugged into an embrace by Miriam. Over the top of her head, she sees the Minister leave in a swirling of dark, velvet robes. 

Hermione has people wringing her hand, shouting congratulations and questions, but she’s set on a specific someone. She charges purposefully through the crowd, not stopping until she’s climbed the gallery steps and finds Draco waiting there. 

He meets her halfway, a smug smile on his mouth and praise at the ready, but she doesn't give him the chance. 

“I want to kiss you right now. In front of all these people.” She pins him with her tone and stare: possessive, declarative, returned with equal fervor. 

“How very forward of you, wife.”

“But I’m not going to.”

“Because our photo would then rule the front page as opposed to the law’s victory?”

“Yes, and I would hope Miriam is afforded some credit for her speech.”

He takes her hand. “You’ll grant me a private demonstration, of course?”

“Yes, let’s go home. Celebrate the impending press coverage.”

They nod to a smiling Narcissa who nods back then turns to see an approaching Andromeda. Hermione and Draco don’t stick around long enough to observe the reunion, but the determined look in Andromeda’s eye gives Hermione hope the conversation would be a fruitful one between the estranged sisters.

When they return to the flat, they decide to bring the champagne with them into their marble tub. 

“Lance can still thwart this. He can refuse to sign this into law,” Hermione says, already strategizing should the worst happen. 

“He can’t, though, he’d never recover. He’s so unpopular at the moment; I have it on good authority he’s facing an ethics inquiry. Now, Granger, get in the bath, drink this,” he hands her a brimming crystal flute, “and let me celebrate you.”

Hermione sinks slowly into the water and her triumph. With glass in hand, bubbles up to her neck, and a naked man at her back with a sturdy arm banded around her waist, she allows happiness to take complete residence of her body. 

“Is this satisfying your urge to spoil me?”

“Hmm, it’ll do for now,” Draco says and moves his hands up and down her sides. “Speaking of, it’ll be a year next week.”

“I believe normal people refer to it as an anniversary,” Hermione quips and Draco flicks water at her.

“It occurred to me that I never gave you a wedding present.”

“I don’t know that I would have accepted one from you.”

“Would you now?”

“I suppose so.”

He rests his chin on her shoulder. “The way you’ve structured your Wolfsbane measure allows for private donations.”

“It does.”

“Do you remember how much gold we brought home from our sale of 'The Hammer of the Witches?'”

“Draco…”

“You said at the time, ‘What a ridiculous sum, surely we don’t need the money?’ You were right—you usually are, it’s awful—so now it can be transferred elsewhere.”

He kisses along her neck and Hermione lets him play at persuasion for a bit. 

“Of course you can donate the gold. The seduction routine is quite unnecessary.”

“I beg to differ.”

She feels a smirk against her skin, and he waits until his fingers are between her legs to say, “I didn’t even tell you the best news.”  

He swirls his touch slowly, methodically, then presses into her. 

“Travers was at one of the galas last month.” His fingers speed up. “He likes a drink, Travers.”

Hermione’s breath hitches. “You know I’m not one for petty gossip.”

He stills his fingers inside her. “Patience wife, I’m getting there.” Draco, the irritating man, waits until she’s stopped moving and committed to silence before restarting his ministrations.

“As I was saying, he’s fond of a drink, all chatty after a glass or three. He was quite boastful to a colleague of mine about the money being saved across many departments. Would you like to know how he claims to have accomplished this?”

“Something— oh —something horrific— Draco, please —I imagine?”

“I won’t repeat the crass wording verbatim, but he was rather happy to recommend to some European officials about saving Galleons by paying Muggleborn employees less than their pureblooded equals.”

“Bastards,” Hermione says, fury threatening to ruin her impending climax.

“Easy, darling.” Draco takes his time kissing her, turning her to capture her lips and quell her anger. “Because when I tell you I have it on good authority that Lance is facing an ethics inquiry, it is because I passed on that tip to every reporter on our roster. Now, how do you think some of Lance’s less-than-pureblooded allies will take to the news that they may be underpaid, despite showing him loyalty?”

Hermione grins against his mouth. “How unfortunate that the Ministry picked such a clever husband for me.”

“Shall we send them something in gratitude? Some sort of gloating bouquet?”

“No, my love.” She settles atop him. “We’ll live well and let that speak for us.”

in these silent days14

 

A year or so later

The Daily Prophet arrives as they sit side by side eating breakfast. It bears an exciting headline, one Hermione had waited so very long to read. After last month’s exciting news story had caused a stir, with the resignation of Minister Ellard Lance, Hermione knew it was only a matter of time before the rest of the dominoes fell. All the same, the bold ink declaring the Matched Matrimonial Act to be null and void by the Wizengamot causes a wide smile to break across her face. 

She meets her husband’s eyes as he grins, twists his ring off, and sets it down. 

“Where do we go from here?” Draco asks, wrapping one of her curls around his finger.

“I’d like a divorce.”

His grin widens. “And why’s that?”

“I’ve fallen in love, you see, with a wonderful man. I’d like to choose him, and for him to choose me. But for that to happen,” she follows Draco’s action, placing her ring beside his, “I need to be unmarried.”

He releases her curl. “Might I make a counter offer?”

“You may.”

“Divorces are expensive and time-consuming.”

“What would you suggest then?”

“That we continue on, exactly as we are. But the next time that ring slides on your finger, it’s because I’ve asked you to be my wife.”

Hermione slips from her seat and onto Draco’s lap. “I suppose we’ll have to renew our vows, too.”

“Yes, I should think so.”

“Our mothers are going to be thrilled. And Ginny. Oh Merlin, and Pansy.”

“I shudder to think what my mother and Pansy will want to plan. Are you prepared for all their extravagant suggestions?”

“I can handle them. But I don’t think you’re prepared for how weepy my mother will be.”

“Will we invite my father?”

“If he promises to behave. In writing. I’m not above an Unbreakable Vow either.”

Draco takes hold of her chin. “Suppose I just ask you now? What would you say?”

“No, that won’t do. I demand creativity.” She pecks him then stands up. 

“I’ll see what I can do,” he drawls, but Hermione doesn’t miss the glint in his grey eyes, clearly alight with an idea already in mind.

 

A few days later, Hermione apparates into the foyer to find the bouquet of gladiolus is gone. In its place on the table sits a small, square item. Hermione picks up and opens the ring box only to find it empty. She runs her finger along the velvet padding where her ring should sit. 

No need for any guide to decipher this message. 

The crack of apparition sounds behind her and she hears a graceful shuffle of movement. She knows what waits just at her back. All she has to do is turn around and look her future in the face. 

There will be a man on one knee, a question from his mouth, an alexandrite ring in his hand. Draco will offer her boundless loyalty, good days and bad, physical affection, intellectual stimulation, no small amount of frustration, companionship, and love for a lifetime.

Perhaps most importantly, he’ll offer himself. 

She’ll accept.

 

FIN

